MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons. And Sam makes noise from his
phone over there. Strangely.
SAM: I can't turn it off! It won't stop!
MATT: So a couple things. One, you'll notice that
we're down two players tonight. That's because
apparently some babies can't wait! So there is
currently a new addition to the Critical Role team
right now--
(cheering)
MATT: More information will be made available as
the parents see fit. I'm glad that I worked
towards a narrative exit for them that they
couldn't be there for. So anyway--
ASHLEY: We love you, Travis and Laura!
MATT: Super excited. We love you guys so much,
seriously.
MARISHA: We love you!
MATT: You're amazing, and we look forward to
meeting the new one very soon.
MARISHA: I love that you can't emote.
SAM: I can't smile.
TALIESIN: Just saying, they could've held the baby
five more hours. I feel like they could've done it.
MATT: I'm just saying, then we could've shared a
birthday.
LIAM: It is the best day! So much is going on. My
nephew is here, so many things are happening
behind the scenes. It is the best day!
MARISHA: It's crazy.
TALIESIN: We're so tired and it's great.
MATT: So anyway, let's get through our
announcements real fast. First and foremost, a big
thank you to our returning fantastic sponsors of
this campaign, D&amp;D Beyond! Sam, if you don't mind.
SAM: Guys, I didn't know this. The D&amp;D Beyond
discount code, 826LA, is still active for the 25%
off the legendary bundle. I did not know that. It
will be expiring soon, so please make sure to
check out the legendary bundle on the D&amp;D Beyond
marketplace. Also, the site will be undergoing
some maintenance tomorrow, Friday morning, starting
at 7:00am Pacific for a few hours. The site will
be in read-only mode at this time. So, I don't
know what that means. Also, the product director
Adam Bradford will be hosting a stream at 9:00am
Pacific during maintenance with some exciting
announcements! Be sure to tune in to
twitch.tv/dndbeyond (not and) to check it all out.
And just for my little extra here tonight, not
getting lost in the fact that Travis and Laura are
having the most magical day of their lives and
Liam is gone, I wanted to pay special tribute to
our little Ashley who's leaving us for a while. I
feel like she should get some love too on her way
out the door. I composed a song for you in the
style of your favorite band, Boyz II Men.
ASHLEY: Ah, yes!
TALIESIN: How did you know?
SAM: (singing) How do I say goodbye... shit. To
our sweet, innocent harbinger of death fallen
angel? On NBC you play a geek, but you're a real
one here with us every week. If we get to visit
Xhorhas, I hope Blindspot will let you play. But
until then, I hope Patterson dies every day!
ASHLEY: Yay!
MATT: Thank you, Sam.
SAM: That's hard to do in a mustache.
ASHLEY: I can see the--
MARISHA: Are you committing to this all night?
SAM: This is what I did the first time through the
campaign, so that's what I gotta do this time!
MARISHA: Holy shit. I thought this was for your
opening gag.
ASHLEY: Me too!
SAM: This is what I wore this time in the first
campaign.
MARISHA: I remember!
LIAM: So on this show where Ashley is about to
leave, baby Baileyham has just been born, I'm in
the woods, and we're about to move, you decided to
wear that for the entire episode?
SAM: I did not decide. This was put upon me by the
fates.
MARISHA: You made that, though!
SAM: Yeah. I can't un-make it.
MATT: Yep, it is a thing. Congratulations.
TALIESIN: It's been a while, is the monkey Smokey
or the Bandit? I can never remember.
SAM: Oh, the monkey’s here, right? Okay, good.
LIAM: As long as that is on your face, you will
get no sugar from me, Sam Riegel.
MATT: No. Well, thank you very much, D&amp;D Beyond.
Thank you, Sam. A couple other announcements:
because we're doing this move, there will not a
Critical Role or Talks Machina next week. So we'll
be missing you guys that week. We'll see you on
social media and stuff and having chats to keep us
all through our withdrawal that we’ll be
suffering, and some of you I'm sure will as well.
But we'll be back the week after that, the second
week of July we'll be picking up with the Talks
Machina of tonight's episode, then hosted by our
fantastic Brian W. Foster. Then the following
Thursday, the following episode, in which we will
have a guest, maybe two, joining us.
SAM: Oh, what? Okay. Will one of them be a baby?
MATT: No. I'm not that good at teaching this game.
I think language is an important barrier in
teaching D&amp;D.
SAM: You're pretty good, though.
MATT: Anyway, just so you guys are aware. Also,
for those who haven't seen on social media,
welcome, we just launched a Kickstarter with our
good friends at Steamforged Games.
MARISHA: Holy shit, that's right, that's also
going on! Every day feels like a year.
MATT: So if you guys don't know, we launched a
Kickstarter, it's a short-form Kickstarter for our
line of Vox Machina and Mighty Nein miniatures.
For those who aren't aware or familiar, we have an
entire line of highly detailed, super high quality
plastic minis of all of Vox Machina including
Trinket, and all of Mighty Nein. There are
stretch-- I was going to say stretch goals.
There are Kickstarter exclusive rewards that
include Pumat Prime for The Mighty Nein, and his
three simulacrum! As well as a fantastic Taryon
Darrington and Doty for the Vox Machina side. Go
ahead and check it out, it's going to be up there
for another week or so, I believe. If you can't
afford it right now, you can even put a dollar in
there and we'll have opportunities down the road
hopefully for you to jump in if you missed it the
first round. But when it comes down to it, you get
eight minis for Vox Machina, you get the Mighty
Nein minis as well, another eight minis, with
Shakäste involved in there. All the Pumats as
well, and the extra bonus features of Tary and
Doty, all for $60. Which is a pretty fantastic
package for the quality of these and for the
collectable aspect of it. If you like it, help
make it happen more! It's already exploded, it's nuts.
MARISHA: The boxes are looking so cool.
MATT: I haven't seen the boxes yet.
MARISHA: I probably shouldn't spoil that, but it's
pretty cool.
MATT: I should see that. We're super excited about
it. You guys have already blown it out of the
water. If you haven't had the opportunity, now's
the time to jump in and I hope you enjoy them. So
I believe that's all the rest of the announcements
we have.
MARISHA: I'm so emotional.
MATT: So let's bring it in to tonight's episode of
Critical Role!
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: And welcome back.
TALIESIN: That was a good one.
MATT: That was great. So last we left off: The
Mighty Nein, in making their way northward towards
their eventual goal of Shadycreek Run to complete
their second mission that they accepted from The
Gentleman in Zadash, have been traversing the
countryside and made their way to the city of
Hupperdook, the largely gnomish cultural city
there of industry and currently construction of
war machines to send towards the conflict with
Xhorhas to the east. There you saw the very hardy
work atmosphere of the gnomes, and then the
evening very crazy party atmosphere in which many
of you dove into a hard drinking contest. You won
the title of the Blushing Tankard Tavern, beating
out their old champions, and woke up with terrible
hangovers, and realizing that most of your gold
had been stolen. Upon doing some sleuthing around
the town, you had bullied a couple of bullies that
were pushing Rissa around, they had been a problem
for a while, sent them peeing their pants and
rushing. You spoke with Rissa's father in his
tinkering inventor's store, in which you
discovered a shiny object, a fantastic
experimental hand crossbow construct of his that
he would be interested in relinquishing without
payment if you do him the favor of correcting a
mistake he made a while back. Apparently he
crafted, on the request of the Starosta of the
city, a powerful Gearkeeper, a construct-like
entity that was meant to help be a warden within
the prison that went crazy, killed a bunch of
people and they sealed it off, and it's been there
forgotten ever since. You said you'd take a look
at this. Eventually you discovered that the money
you had lost had been taken by four children, who
currently are without parents, who have been
living on the streets here in the city of
Hupperdook while their folks had been sent to the
prison six months before for being caught
worshiping unapproved deities within the Empire.
You, after having this conversation with them,
retrieving your money, and leaving Kiri with them
for the time being for safekeeping, decided to see
if you had the possibility to prevent them from
being sent to an Empire-run orphanage, in the
hopes of freeing their parents in some way, shape
or form from their binds. That was where we had
left off.
MARISHA: Where are we now? Are we still in the
butcher?
MATT: You guys have stepped out of the butcher
home, leaving the kids behind with Kiri, and you
are now out in the open streets of Hupperdook,
late morning, midday. What would you like to do?
MARISHA: Is Rissa still there?
MATT: Rissa is still with you.
MARISHA: Rissa? Sorry. Okay.
SAM: You said late morning? Midday? So we could at
least go check out this prison and do some
scouting before nightfall, yeah?
MARISHA: We were talking about planning, and then
sleeping, and then going.
TALIESIN: If we see those teenagers also, we
should probably call them off.
SAM: Oh, the teenagers.
MARISHA: I really would hate for our problem with
them to end up coming and finding the kids. My
words aren't really here right now, you know what
I mean.
SAM: Yeah, you just had a baby, I understand.
MARISHA: Emotionally.
LIAM: Do we want to leave it up to chance that
we'll run into those two kids, that they will not
succeed, or we'll find them?
TALIESIN: At the very least, we can leave word
with their employer and if we run into them, we'll
call them off.
MARISHA: I say we send Rissa to go talk to them.
SAM: Rissa knows the town, though, she might be
able to help us scout out this prison.
MARISHA: That's true. Maybe we go back to their
employer?
TALIESIN: We'll have Rissa meet us at the prison
maybe later. She can call them off and we can head
to the prison.
SAM: Why don't we have Fjord and Jester go tell
their employers!
TALIESIN: (as Fjord) "Yeah, that sounds great!"
(as Taliesin) Never mind. (as Fjord) "Yep. Well.
"Great. Yep"
SAM: Which one are you? Are you Jester?
TALIESIN: I don't know anymore. Who wants the
node, by the way?
SAM: Oh, yes. Well, let's find out if we need it
yet.
MARISHA: Yeah, let's hold on to it. Maybe there's
going to be some sort of emergency situation.
TALIESIN: Fair.
MARISHA: Use node in case of emergency.
LIAM: Jester, could we perhaps hold on to your
backpack before you go so that we have that in
case we need it?
MATT: "No! I am going to hold onto this. Why would
I give it to you?"
LIAM: Well, I feel it is fairly obvious, but okay,
as you were.
MATT: "I'm not going anywhere, why would I give it
to you? This is my bag, I paid for it."
LIAM: Ja. Okay, so what are we doing now?
SAM: I guess we're all going.
MARISHA: This is revenge for any time we haven't
let Matt go on an NPC, just saying.
TALIESIN: Let's go take a look at this prison.
SAM: All right.
MATT: Rissa goes, "All right, I can go ahead and
lead you to it. Can't say I've been too close to
"it, personally, so far. Follow me." Rissa guides
you through the rest of the shelf back to the
walkway that winds down the front of the mountain
to the bottom half of the city of Hupperdook.
SAM: Lowerdook.
MATT: Lowerdook, if you will.
MARISHA: Wait, are Fjord and Jester going to go
call off the employers?
MATT: They're with you guys. You can go head that
way if you want to call them off, unless you want
to send them on their own wild goose chase.
SAM: Fuck those guys. They'll be fine.
MARISHA: I would just hate for them to find the
kids and then do something to the kids.
SAM: How would they find the kids?
TALIESIN: They're literally on a mission to find
the kids right now.
SAM: Hmm.
MARISHA: I mean, we put Caleb's Alarm across it,
but still.
SAM: We did.
ASHLEY: Still, if they get across.
MARISHA: Exactly. I don't know.
MATT: "I could maybe send them a message?"
SAM: Oh, yes. You have that spell, don't you?
MATT: "I do!"
MARISHA: Can you do it to the kids?
SAM: To Fitz and Ashton.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Let's do that.
SAM: To Fitz.
MATT: "Okay."
MARISHA: Man, that solves that problem.
MATT: She quietly tugs on the symbol of the
Traveler and goes like, "Okay, Fitz? This is the
"girl with the people that were making you
angry--"
SAM: You have, like, eight words left.
MATT: "We... found it so..."
MARISHA: We don't need help.
MATT: "Everything is good!"
SAM: Go back to work.
MATT: "I think that's all of it.
Go-back-to-work!"
TALIESIN: Technically, "go back to work" can be
one word if you say it fast enough.
SAM: That's true. A lot of that was hyphenated.
MATT: "The Traveler is very forgiving."
TALIESIN: Grammar.
MATT: Rissa leads you down this path to the Iron
Lot, which is-- you're guided to the basement.
You've seen it as you approached and there was the
large platform elevator that rose up to the second
layer. It's currently not being used; it's locked
on the upper floor. As you head into that area,
the smokestacks are billowing strongly, business
is in the process of being done full-throttle in
the understanding that this coming conflict or the
now arrived conflict on the eastern side has put
everyone into overdrive to prepare whatever sort
of equipment or weaponry they can send that
direction.
SAM: And the stuff they're making is catapults or
guns?
MATT: Well, from the outside, all you can see,
because you haven't been inside any of the
warehouses-- There is the Iron Lot and there's the
Assembly Yard. The Assembly Yard is the one that's
the open space where they're building these large
siege engines. You see mobile carts that are
either horse-drawn or powered by something you
don't quite understand yet that have other large
weapons attached to them.
MARISHA: We saw bolt-throwers, those giant
bolt-throwers. Like, Lord of the Rings-style.
Siege towers. Also Lord of the Rings-style.
TALIESIN: Very Lord of the Rings.
MARISHA: Battering ram, like every fantasy
movie-style, but definitely Lord of the Rings and
the huge cannons.
TALIESIN: Not very Lord of the Rings.
MARISHA: Pirates.
SAM: Cool.
MARISHA: That's what we saw last-- or that's what
I think I saw when we did a perception check or
something.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: And it looks like a big factory that
looks like a evil Willy Wonka factory kind of thing.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
MATT: Yes. So as you are being led down, Rissa's
pointing out some elements of it. She goes, "Okay,
"so over that side is the Omnismelter." She points
over to a cluster of a dozen or so warehouses that
are scattered in a spider web-like formation that
are connected by a series of hallways between each
other and then towards a central piece. She goes,
"That there is where most of the foundries of the
"city lie. Where all the various mined ingots or
those imported are melted down and utilized. The
"foreman there is a bit of a tool. There's the
Armavault." She points to the far northern side of
the mountain base and you see a 25, 30-foot tall
by 60-foot across iron door that is solid and
jammed into the side of this mountain. It looks
like it's very well protected from this glance at
the distance. From what you can see, there's maybe
two dozen or so crownsguard that are stationed at
its base. "That's where most of the funds that are
saved for the uses of the city maintain as well as
"a number of the not currently being used devices
of war. Means of defending the city should it come
"under attack, if you will." Points over there. You
can see what looks to be where most of this smoke
and steam is rising from. There is this one large,
two-story black tower that has a single column of
fast moving smoke pouring out of it. You can see
areas where the smoke seems to be pulsing or
darkening and widening at certain places. She
goes, "That there is the Underbellows. That's
"where they utilize a number of the forges and
furnaces for the factories here. They've harnessed
"some of the volcanic activity beneath the mountain
and that maintains a consistent heat for the
"forges. Smells downright awful, to be honest. Over
there's the Firemark Facility." She points over to
a building that looks a little simpler. It's not
super tall and ominous-looking. It's very plain,
made of cheap metals. You notice all the buildings
here are mostly metal, probably because there's a
lot of dealing with heat, fire, sparks, and the
last thing you need is any of these things to
catch fire. She points, though, to the Firemark
Facility and she goes, "This is where they're
"developing a majority of certain explosive and
black powder-based technologies."
SAM: What's that place called again?
MATT: "It's called the Firemark Facility."
MARISHA: Firemark.
SAM: Is it heavily protected?
MATT: "(chuckles) Most everything is here. Then
right over there," and she points to the southern
side of the mountain base of the Iron Lot to a
smaller doorway. Similar in shape and construction
as to the Armavault, but it's a little more
localized. Maybe about 15-foot high and about
20-foot wide. "That is the Gearhold Prison. The
one you were asking about. The one where my father
"done fucked up."
TALIESIN: What do you know about that machine he
built, anyway?
MATT: "It's-- have you ever seen an automaton
where they're made of stone or made of clay?"
TALIESIN: Come across a couple.
MATT: "Imagine one that's made of metal and gears
and blades. Lots of blades."
MARISHA: What? Blades?
MATT: "Blades."
MARISHA: Oh, god.
TALIESIN: Vampire Hunters. Sorry.
MATT: "It is covered in Daywalkers, yes."
MARISHA: Do the blades spin?
MATT: "They do. The whole thing spins, actually.
It doesn't have feet."
SAM: It just rolls and cuts.
MATT: "Basically."
MARISHA: Oh my god.
LIAM: It is animated by magical means?
MATT: "Partially magical and partially
clockwork."
TALIESIN: Is it steam-powered? Or is it--
MATT: "The power source is magical, but most of
its actual locomotion is done through clockwork
"and various internal gears. It's actually quite a
marvel to behold. It's just--"
TALIESIN: It's a magical power source, then.
MATT: "As far as I know. It's not my mastery. It's
my daft father's."
MARISHA: So where's the source?
SAM: It's inside of it, I would assume, right?
MARISHA: So if we get the source--
TALIESIN: Maybe?
SAM: What did your father call this "robit"?
MATT: "He referred to it as the Gearkeeper."
SAM: The Gearkeeper.
MATT: "It was designed to be one of the
threatening wardens to help quell any sort of
"breakouts of the prison. Meant as an intimidation
device for those who attempted to rise up against
"their captors and possibly be its first initial
run to be a defensive sentinel for the city. If
"these things worked properly, having five or six
of them just rapidly on the outskirts of the city
"would probably keep anyone from trying to break in
here or make any sort of lawless act in its
"boundaries. Unfortunately, they've only made one
and it went crazy and killed a bunch of people. So
"there's that."
MARISHA: Yeah. Doesn't sound like a city I'd want
to live in.
MATT: "Yeah, that's why I'm trying to fix it."
MARISHA: (sighs)
TALIESIN: They just let it-- they've cornered it
into a--
MATT: "They sealed it off. They've been trying to
get back to it, but there's a lot of distraction
"and honestly it's out of sight, out of mind, I
think."
TALIESIN: Honestly, we could just show up and say
we've been hired to try and take care of it and go in.
SAM: Would anyone believe that?
TALIESIN: We technically have been hired to go in
and take care of it. We're just working in trade.
SAM: Not by the city.
TALIESIN: No, they know not by the city, so by a
private contractor.
LIAM: I am sorry, I don't understand. You say
they're too busy to deal with it. Have they got it
locked away in a vault while it just stomps
around?
MATT: "As far as I know, yeah. They'd originally
had it placed in the bottom floor in one section
"which had more of the very violent criminals and
killed a bunch of them. Not too bad. Killed a
"bunch of guards. That's pretty bad. At the time,
they didn't have the manpower to fight it off, so
"they sealed the doors and haven't had a problem
since."
ASHLEY: So was anyone else left in there with it?
That it maybe didn't kill or--
MATT: "It's been there for quite some time. A
couple years at least, I think. Two or three
"years? So if anyone was, they've expired, I'm
pretty sure. Sorry."
ASHLEY: That's fine by me.
SAM: Hmm.
TALIESIN: I think we're going to have to do a
little more research, but I'm feeling pretty good
about our prospects.
SAM: Well, the main concern is getting in the
prison. I don't know if walking up to the front
door and saying, "Hi, we're here to take care of
your spinny death problem," is going to work.
TALIESIN: We heard you have a bug problem. We're
here to take care of it?
SAM: Do we need outfits or something?
TALIESIN: I mean, I suggest we wear shoes and
pants, but you know.
SAM: What, like Orkin man outfits, or do we need
to look like we're official?
ASHLEY: Like a uniform of some sort?
TALIESIN: We could have a letter from your father,
perhaps?
MARISHA: Can we go get suits?
MATT: "That's true."
SAM: But they don't like her father.
TALIESIN: Yeah, but they'd be perfectly happy if
we-- We're going in knowing full well what we're
getting into. There's no harm, no foul there.
MARISHA: Awesome black suits.
LIAM: Yeah, they certainly have nothing to lose.
We are a group of people claiming we're here to
deal with their issue. We either die doing it or
solve the problem.
SAM: Heist-type maintenance workers uniforms?
TALIESIN: Okay. You really want to break into a
prison?
SAM: I just want to wear a onesie.
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
TALIESIN: I feel like we can make that dream come
true.
MARISHA: Something with a big lapel. Maybe double
breasted. Sounds great. We would look so handsome,
you guys.
MATT: Jester leans in to Rissa and goes, "Rissa?
Do you have any examples of your father's writing
"because I can copy it pretty well."
SAM: Ooh. That sounds like something that's way
too smart for Laura to say.
MARISHA: Oh.
TALIESIN: You're so lucky she's not watching right
now.
MATT: She'll be watching.
ASHLEY: She probably is.
TALIESIN: She's probably watching. Hi, Laura. I
would love to see if there's any
sort of sketch or blueprint of this thing that we
could just take a look at first and maybe have a
thought of our plan of attack.
MATT: "I can guarantee you they're not going to
have any publicly available blueprints of a prison."
TALIESIN: No, I mean of the machine.
MATT: "Oh!"
MARISHA: Would your dad?
MATT: "We can certainly ask."
TALIESIN: Just to sort of see what we're getting
into.
MATT: You see that spark in her eye of a good idea
and then thinking about having to go back to her
father she's like (sighs).
TALIESIN: We can go on our own, if you like.
MATT: "No, it's fine. I'll go. I'm used to him.
It's okay. Come on."
MARISHA: Does your dad like pastries? Does he have
a sweet tooth?
MATT: "I imagine he does. I've seen him eat a
few."
MARISHA: Does he like pies?
MATT: "Probably."
MARISHA: Let's pick up your dad a pie on the way
home.
MATT: "Okay."
MARISHA: People like pies, right?
SAM: I love a pie.
TALIESIN: I mean, I like pies but I'm a bad
example of so many things.
ASHLEY: I really like meat pies.
MARISHA: Meat pies. Would your dad like a meat
pie? I just hear people bring pies.
MATT: Fjord kind of leans in and goes, "That's
good, Jester."
MARISHA: Thank you.
TALIESIN: (snickers)
MARISHA: Beau. But that's okay. It's been a long,
emotional day.
MATT: Has been.
MARISHA: Hasn't it, Fjord?
MATT: I have too much in my head right now, guys.
It's been a long day.
SAM: Why? You playing five characters at the same
time?
MATT: It's fine.
TALIESIN: This brings me back to some home games.
MATT: Thanks, Baby Willingham.
MARISHA: Oh man. So much, it's been the longest
day.
MATT: It's been the longest day.
LIAM: (chuckles)
MARISHA: We stop and get a meat pie on the way.
MATT: All right. Easy enough as you're wandering
through the street, following the scents of food
that are being cooked in advance of the current
lunch hour happening. You hear a few whistles go
off in the distance and in that moment, Rissa
goes, "We best be hurrying before the rush hits."
And you pick up the pace as you start hearing the
different steam whistles go off and you watch a
lot of the buildings begin to just swarm out with
all their workers on their brief lunch break. You
manage to stay ahead of most of the wave making
their way up to the top shelf of the city,
eventually coming to one of the vendors on the
outside who is swarmed by about 12 or 13 different
gnomes. You wait patiently for about a good 15, 20
minutes or so as they prepare and get all their
meat pies ready, sweet pies ready. Sell a few
things, a couple of their regulars cut in line in
front of you, not paying much attention or caring
that you're waiting patiently. But there is a
large crowd behind you and you manage to get to
the front and the two gnomes that are currently in
the process of divvying this up look to the
rest of you and go, "Oh, you're a right
"interesting team. What brings you here? You
looking for pies? We got pies. You want pies?"
SAM: We'd like a hospitable meat pie.
MATT: "Single?"
SAM: Oh.
MATT: "It's not enough to go around, I can tell
you."
ASHLEY: Well, we might need a couple.
MARISHA: One for us, one for him? Two meat pie--
sorry, three meat pies!
MATT: "All right!" Turns around and pulls out
three gnome-sized meat pies which are about that big.
ASHLEY: Oh.
MARISHA: Can we make that a double?
MATT: "Six gnomish meat pies!"
MARISHA: Thank you.
MATT: Passes them over.
SAM: We have money again, don't we?
TALIESIN: Yes, we have our money back.
MARISHA: I throw down for the pies.
MATT: Okay. We'll say for the total of that, it's
maybe a silver.
SAM: When the whistles blew, Matthew, did we see
any guards do a shift change at the prison?
MATT: Because you were rushing to get the pies,
make a perception check with disadvantage at this
distance.
MARISHA: Mm.
SAM: Seven.
MATT: Seven. You have no idea.
MARISHA: That was super smart though.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no. That's a good thought.
MATT: You have your meat pies. You want to make
your way over back to the Tinkertop.
MARISHA: I pass out meat pies to anyone who wants
one, but save one.
MATT: All right. So you have one ready. You guys
snack as you walk along. Interesting point of
noticing, as you guys come by, you do see a
familiar sight for you and for those who've been
in the Empire for a bit. You're familiar with this
as well, Nott and Caleb.
SAM: Oh.
MATT: You see a crew. It's two crownsguard that
are flanking one figure you see wearing a black
cloak with gold trim that goes just past the
shoulders. It's almost like a shawl or a um...
brain escapes the term. But it's like a short
cloak.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: These are the tithe collectors.
SAM: Oh, yes.
MARISHA: Taxman.
MATT: They're referred to colloquially as Reapers
behind their back, but you see them exiting one
home and moving onto the next door and knocking.
MARISHA: Are they heading towards the butcher?
MATT: A ways away, but they're present. It seems
that the time of year has come, the
every-six-month window seems to be coming or has
arrived. Nevertheless, you travel with meat pie in
hand, eventually making your way back to Tinkertop
Inventions, the door still partially ajar. You see
the faint light of the two lanterns in the back as
you enter, and there in the back you see, in the process
of sketching something down, your good friend,
Mastermaker Cleff Tinkertop. "Ah, you've returned!
"Certainly good to see you! What can I help you
with?"
SAM: We've brought gift.
MATT: "Oh, that's so kind! Thank you so much!"
MARISHA: It was Rissa's idea.
MATT: "Rissa, for your old pops, did you?" She's
like, "Well, it was sort of a group decision. Hope
"you like it, Dad." "It's cold, but tasty. Anyway."
He takes it and starts eating it, stuffing it in
chunks through his gnomish maw, getting bits of
the gravy dripping off of the chin.
TALIESIN: We're going to take a stab at this death
machine. We were curious if you could--
MARISHA: I love that that's what we're calling
it.
TALIESIN: I like the description.
MARISHA: Spinning death machine.
TALIESIN: If there's any information you can give
us about the machine, just so that we're not going
in cold, like if you know if it has any
vulnerabilities to anything.
MATT: "Plenty! I built the thing myself. Don't
worry!"
TALIESIN: If you can sketch it for us so we can
get a sense of--
MATT: "Oh, I've already got it. Don't worry there,
friend. I'll be right back!" Turns around and
disappears behind a--
SAM: We could steal the crossbow. We don't have to
do the mission at all.
TALIESIN: Please don't tell me that you're going
to do that.
SAM: I could, just saying.
MATT: You hear some rustling and some things
falling over. A couple of banging noises, and then
you hear a (clattering), "Damn it."
SAM: Is that a cymbal crashing?
LIAM: Being as the man's daughter is standing
here with us, perhaps we will pass on that idea.
MATT: "Yeah, I can hear you, just so you're aware.
I'm right next to you, little one."
SAM: She's clever.
MARISHA: No, she just has hearing.
SAM: No. She's a wily one.
MATT: A moment later, Cleff returns, clutching an
armful of rolled pieces of paper and prints and
parchment and goes, "Here's about everything I've
got on the thing." Throws it down in front of you,
some of it unrolls. There's various stages of
design, the breakdown of the mechanics and the
interior of this. It's extremely intricate and
very impressive clockwork. Roll an intelligence check.
TALIESIN: Okay, but I'm not going to be able
to make heads or tails of any of this shit.
LIAM: Yes, I have questions about it as well.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Caleb, you are the one who is the most
proficient with understanding systems. If you
could make an intelligence check for me as well,
both you and Molly, since Molly was the first to
grab them.
LIAM: Oh. Natural one.
MARISHA: Oh no-sies!
SAM: He's eating that extra meat pie.
TALIESIN: Eight.
MATT: You both take a moment and look over it.
One, it's all written in Gnomish. Do either of
you guys understand Gnomish as a language?
TALIESIN: Does anybody understand Gnomish?
SAM: Gnome.
MATT: Secondly, a lot of the blueprints are in
shorthand, and the design work-- while it's very
beautiful to see-- the actual sketching of each
stage of its construction and the interior
mechanisms about it are very beautiful, it is very
intricate. Paying attention to it and looking it
over, the best you can ascertain is there is a
core. There is some sort of a device that powers
it. Through the notes around it, it's supposed to
power for about 200 years before it needs
replacing.
SAM: Just wait it out.
LIAM: It's a good half-life.
MARISHA: It's a Duracell.
MATT: However, around it is layer after layer of
metallic iron rings that are joined at certain
hinge points so they can spin and shift in the
inside like a gyroscope.
TALIESIN: It's very hard to get a spell in there.
MATT: Yes. It's not impossible if you pull enough
of the armor away, which is the next stage, the
layers of armor. There's three different layers of
articulated armor that can shift and move because
on the inside there are about a dozen bladed arms
that, at any given point in time, can fold out of
the armor and strike like small scythes or sickles
and then retract inside.
SAM: You are fucking crazy, Cleff!
MATT: "That's certainly not the first time I've
heard that!"
LIAM: Yeah, so Herr Tinkertop, once we are to
get past these defenses, would dispelling its
arcane nature shut the machine down?
MATT: "I mean, that's possible. Oh, curses! I
should've thought of some way of a fail-safe to
"prevent that from happening. Well, next design!
Next design, it'll be dispel-proof. Thank you for
"that! You're a good--"
LIAM: The nutshell protecting that core needs to
be defeated first?
MATT: "I imagine to a certain extent. There is a
base level of insulation from impactful or various
"magical intrusions that could affect the core,
that I did think of. But there's only really one.
"I should've put three."
TALIESIN: We start pulling plates off--
MATT: He starts making notes feverishly.
TALIESIN: -- start cutting our way through one
specific spot, we could eventually get to a point
where you could get some spells in there.
SAM: Or maybe Yasha could hit it with her sword.
TALIESIN: You may have to tank this.
ASHLEY: I will certainly try, this does seem like
a very--
TALIESIN: Is there a front and back to this thing,
or is it just a whirling dervish?
MATT: "The front and back is--" Dervish! That's a
great pirate word, dervish! He looks to you and
goes, "There is, kind of." He goes through one of
the papers and pulls it open and there are plates
of the armor-- certain plates that fold up from
the inside. They open and there is a small lens,
like a crystal-type lens, that recesses on the
inside when it's moving and then seems to push out
from it to see.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Question. Can it climb?
MATT: "Depending on the terrain, probably. If it's
flat-walled surfaces, it's not designed for
"climbing. It's designed for intimidation and
slaughtering. Perhaps my design was a bit
"unfocused for the reason they asked me to build
it, but, ah! Next time. Climbing? I don't know,
"probably not."
LIAM: And does it have any capabilities of
attacking at range?
MATT: "As far as I know, no, but it moves very
fast."
MARISHA: These lenses, I'm assuming they're
regular lenses? I don't know, they can still be
blinded, right?
MATT: "Maybe. They're made of a very thick
crystalline substance that had to be imported from
"up north from the remnants of one of the old elven
societies there that specialized in making strong
"crystal."
MARISHA: So it's super cheap and easy to break.
Imported. Great.
TALIESIN: It could possibly be blinded by
obscuring the lens?
MATT: "Maybe."
MARISHA: I was going to say, if we can get
something to blind it, it's still just a lens.
MATT: Starts writing down more notes. "Make sure
lens can't be obscured in a future design."
SAM: Cleff, when you were building this thing, you
were building it off-site I assume, right?
MATT: "No, I built it here!"
SAM: No, I mean off the prison site, not--
MATT: "Oh, right."
SAM: So you don't know any extra secret entrances
or exits to the prison itself?
MATT: "No, unfortunately, they keep us away from
all of that for security reasons. So I couldn't
"help people break in or out. Like now.
That would've been very helpful. Sorry."
LIAM: Would it be foolish to have you speak on our
behalf to usher us in?
MATT: "I don't think they're going to let me in."
TALIESIN: Not you in per se, but if we show up as
representatives here to dismantle the machine?
LIAM: Yes, you're finally ready to make amends, et
cetera.
TALIESIN: And you hired us to go in and do some
work.
MATT: "Maybe." He looks at Rissa. "Rissa, would
you mind bringing your old pops with you?" She's
like, "Only to the door, Dad, then you can come
back." She glares over the two of you. "If that's
"necessary."
TALIESIN: Whatever works.
MATT: "Fine, come along, then. We'll close up
behind, get your keys." "Oh, I haven't been down
"for a proper walk with friends in some time, I'm
so excited!"
TALIESIN: We should get some honey or something. I
bet some honey on the lens would be a real pain in
the ass.
MATT: He takes the last bit of meat pie and shoves
it in his mouth real fast.
TALIESIN: Do you have any honey?
MATT: (unintelligible shouting)
LIAM: I have honey.
TALIESIN: Of course you do.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: Why not something darker? Like ash,
charcoal, black powder.
LIAM: I have that as well.
TALIESIN: What do you have?
LIAM: I have molasses.
MARISHA: That is darker.
TALIESIN: Why do you have molasses? This is
suddenly very exciting.
LIAM: I will tell you that in a few minutes,
actually, if that's all right.
MATT: Jester goes, "This entire time you've been
holding out on delicious molasses?"
LIAM: It's industrial grade, it is not for
baking.
MATT: "Are you sure?"
LIAM: I am quite sure. Did I stutter?
TALIESIN: Is this why your skin is so smooth?
You've been giving yourself a facial every night.
ASHLEY: Wait, what's the difference between baking
and industrial grade?
LIAM: That is a good question, Yasha. I don't cook
with it, I use it for arcane things.
TALIESIN: Magic molasses.
MARISHA: Actually, this brings up a-- how much
molasses do you have?
MATT: (as Fjord) "Yeah, how much you carrying?"
MARISHA: That's so weird. It’s so abrasive
sometimes.
LIAM: I have about the amount of a plum, wrapped
in--
SAM: That's enough to smear a lens.
TALIESIN: I was thinking if we had a small glass
jar of it, we could give it a throw.
ASHLEY: We could also put a meat pie in the--
SAM: I could put a meat pie on the end of one of
my bolts and shoot it at it.
MATT: (as Fjord) "Pie-chucker."
MARISHA: I feel like molasses would gum up
something that's clockwork, right?
TALIESIN: It could help, it depends on how strong
the clockwork is.
SAM: Or just tar or something.
MARISHA: Yeah, something sticky.
TALIESIN: Bubble gum.
LIAM: That would be even better, if we could get our
hands on--
SAM: Maybe on the walk, we can see if we can find
a tar restaurant.
MATT: Rissa goes, "I mean, tar is not uncommonly
used in some of the industrial districts down in
"the Iron Lot."
TALIESIN: And we do have some friends over there
that we just sent their young interns away on a--
MATT: "Well, the forge masters, they're mainly in
metalwork. As far as tar use, that's going to be
"down in the Iron Lot, and that's going to be--
you're on your own there."
MARISHA: I mean, how do we transport it?
SAM: In a bucket?
TALIESIN: In a very gentle bucket or pot.
MARISHA: Heated tar? In a bucket?
TALIESIN: It doesn't have to be hot. It just has
to be--
SAM: It has to be a little hot.
TALIESIN: Has to be a little hot.
MARISHA: Yeah, it gets hard. It's tar.
MATT: Fjord goes, "If only we knew someone around
here who is pretty decent with fire."
SAM: Hey, you could heat up a bucket of tar as we
walk into a prison. That wouldn't be suspicious at all!
MARISHA: Once we get down! Once we get down!
LIAM: That is a good idea, Fjord. Also, Fjord,
congratulations on this, your most auspicious day.
MATT: "Why thank you. I appreciate you being so
forthright and appreciative, Caleb."
LIAM: Yeah. Get your sleep while you can, and
don't use the exercise ball to rock him to sleep
because then they get addicted to it, and that's
the end of your sleep life yourself.
MATT: "I have no idea what the hell you're talking
about."
ASHLEY: Did you babysit a lot as a kid, Caleb? Is
this how you know so much?
LIAM: Oh, no.
TALIESIN: There's so many walls being broken.
There's like fourth wall, fifth wall, sixth wall.
It's too deep.
MATT: You just broke the Prismatic Wall.
TALIESIN: We’re in the eleventh dimension now.
This is getting a little heavy.
MARISHA: He totally just took a thank you for not
his baby being born!
SAM: This is the worst night ever!
TALIESIN: Can I remove that?
ASHLEY: Please take it off!
SAM: No! I’m committed!
MARISHA: I feel like at break time last time, it
came off.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: You made it to break, I think.
SAM: I've got two spares if I need it!
MARISHA, ASHLEY, and TALIESIN: No!
MARISHA: Don't do this to yourself.
MATT: At this point, as you guys are having this
awkward conversation, Cleff is rushing around
grabbing a coat and grabbing some other things,
filling the inside of his apron with various tools
and utensils, "Oh, I can probably use that. All
right, I think I'm ready to come with you."
SAM: Let's go.
MATT: You all step outside, and you get about 30
or so feet before you see Cleff’s pace is slowing.
He takes another step and keeps looking around.
MARISHA: When was the last time you left your
house, Cleff?
MATT: "It's been a while. It's starting to get a
little warm." Rissa is like, "He's kind of a--
"what's the term?"
MARISHA: Agoraphobic.
MATT: "Agoraphobic, if you will. He's a bit iffy
on the outside. Are you sure you're all right,
Dad? You can still stay." "No, no, it's fine. I
want to hang out with my friends here. (nervous laugh)"
SAM: Do you need a drink to soothe your nerves?
MATT: "I don't-- I've never had a drink. I don't
need a drink, but thank you."
SAM: But it would really help.
MATT: "Well I--" and looks over.
TALIESIN: How about just a huddle up? Huddle up,
let's just--
MARISHA: Just us?
TALIESIN: No, we can put him in the center.
MARISHA: Huddle around him, okay. We perform a
protective--
MATT: You all get really close to him. He's like,
"Oh, this is really warm. This is a lot of attention."
MARISHA: No, not that close. We're making a safety
bubble.
MATT: "Oh, all right."
TALIESIN: I mean, it could be warm.
LIAM: This is silly. I take off the cloak that
I've been wearing for a week or so now, and I just
put it over the man's head.
MATT: (muffled yelp)
LIAM: No, oh, sorry.
SAM and MATT: In a comforting way.
(laughter)
LIAM: To disguise his appearance.
SAM: In a smothering way.
MATT: He takes it and pulls it over his head. "All
right," and he, "Let's go (nervous chuckle)." And
is like, "One step, two step." He's basically Bill
Murray in What About Bob? at this point. He's
concentrating on each step he makes going
forward. It's slowing you down a little bit, but
he's making it forward. Rissa is like,
(exasperated groan). You eventually make your way,
further and further.
SAM: We're just going to walk up to the guards and
say we're here to dismantle the "robit," right?
TALIESIN: We are professional robot dismantlers.
SAM: All right, let's do it. Who's going to be
doing the talking?
TALIESIN: Well, we're going to stop and pick up
some tar on the way there and-- I nominate the
human to talk.
MARISHA: Ah, I can't nominate Fjord?
SAM: Yeah. Yeah, no, I think Fjord would agree
with that.
MARISHA: Do you believe in me, Fjord?
MATT: "You know, if I have learned anything it is
that you are full of surprises. So by all means."
MARISHA: All right, tar first.
SAM: Tar first. Where do we go for tar, the Iron
Lot?
MATT: Rissa looks. "Iron Lot's most likely. I'll
keep an eye out, follow me." She leads you guys
down the switchback path, once more down to the
Iron Lot, the bottom shelf of the city. There,
upon keeping an eye out, Rissa is looking back and
forth. On the outskirts of the Firemark Facility
she's like, "No, I don't think they're going to do
much as far as tar goes. Honestly, a lot of it's
"probably based somewhere in the Assembly Yard.
That's where they're making the bigger constructs
"and having to piece together wood exteriors."
MARISHA: Is that far from here?
MATT: "No, it's on the northern side of the bottom
shelf." She leads you guys over to the outskirts,
and there is a big fence that wraps around the
Assembly Yard, where a lot of these thin standing,
skeletal towers of metal are placed against some
constructs that are in partial levels of
construction. Others are empty and not currently
in use. Other ones seem to have been near
completion, and they're in the process of
preparing and breaking down the various siege
engine for transport to the east. Who's keeping an
eye out to see if there’s anything that could be
used like tar? Who's looking for this?
SAM: I'll look for that.
MATT: All right, make a perception check, please.
SAM: 18.
MATT: 18, not too bad. You take about five minutes
or so to case the vicinity, and looking between
the gate, you can see, two towers over, there is one
partially constructed, wide bolt-thrower cart that
only has one that's currently bolted to it. You see that
they're taking leather elements and tarring them
around the edges to prevent any sort of impacts
from splintering the wood that's carrying it. It
looks like from there, they go with a leather case
and put metal over that and bolt it down. But in
the process they do have what looks to be a couple
of small pails that have some thick, black,
tar-like substance that they're putting around the
edges.
SAM: And we're behind a gate? And there's
workers everywhere?
MATT: There's probably, within current view of the
open portion of this side of the Assembly Yard,
about 20 or so workers that are in the middle of
focusing on their work at hand. But it's in an
open space, with maybe 20 to 30 feet open between
each project tower. So, it's pretty open. You'd
have to be creative.
SAM: This is at the Assembly Yard?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: I take my staff out. And I go (vibrating
ring) across the gate.
SAM: Ah, why would you-- no.
MATT: As you do so, (vibrating ring) across it,
Rissa goes, "Ah!" And you look at the nearby
tower, maybe 25 or 30 feet ahead to the north of
you, one of the gnomes at the top of the tower is
currently hammering away at one of the large
constructs, siege tower-like structures. Looks
over, pulls the goggles up, "Hello?"
MARISHA: Good money or trade for some supplies!
MATT: "Piss off." Puts the goggles down.
(hammering)
SAM: We could just walk in and pretend to be a
worker and just grab a bucket.
MARISHA: I thought we're behind a gate, like
locked out.
SAM: We could just sneak in the gate.
MARISHA: Just sneak in?
LIAM: I have an idea. I could summon Schmidt, and
it would be a slow process, but he could carry it
a couple of inches, low to the ground, and wait,
and then go a couple of feet.
SAM: What's his range?
LIAM: Oh, let's see.
SAM: How far is it, Matt?
MATT: The nearest-- the one little part of the
yard that they're currently using this material is
about 60 feet away from you. 60 to 70 from your
immediate guess at a glance.
LIAM: Oh, it is about that distance.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: So it might be just shy or-- let's give it a
whirl. Just give me ten-ish minutes.
SAM: Ten minutes!? Oh, okay.
LIAM: That's not bad. I pull a book out of my
holster and flip to the right page and start
muttering. Does anyone want to do anything in
those nine minutes left?
SAM: I'll walk around and see if there's a way
through the gate that's hidden.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
TALIESIN: I'll keep an eye on the guard-- not on the
guard, I'll keep an eye on the worker.
SAM: Ten.
MATT: Ten. You take the ten minutes to look
through, but this part of the gate is pretty
solidly locked in. It's about six and a half,
seven feet tall, and it's just metal bars with
almost a cross-lattice of even thinner metal
strips that are about a quarter-inch thick. The
openings are about that big, so you can still see
through like portholes, but it's not quite large
enough for most of you to slip through. You might
be able to if you're careful and squeeze, since
you're small enough.
MARISHA: And they’re mainly gnomes working this--
MATT: Gnomes, and you see a handful of dwarves,
but the dwarves seem to be mostly doing oversight,
supervision.
MARISHA: Okay. So I like, as a plan B, you
disguising yourself as a gnome worker.
SAM: Okay, let's see if Schmidt can--
MARISHA: Do it first?
MATT: So you complete your spell ritual. You
summon your Unseen Servant.
LIAM: Ja. Schmidt, one second. You two, circus
people. Mollymauk.
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah.
LIAM: Could-- ah, that's cute. Could the two of
you do something fabulous over there?
ASHLEY: Make a distraction?
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: Juggle something?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I could have you stand on my
shoulders.
TALIESIN: We could do that thing. Do you remember
the vaulty thing? Let's do the vaulting thing. All
right, you're going to do the thing over the--
vault up.
ASHLEY: Okay. Ready?
MATT: At which point, Cleff goes, "Oh! We're going
to see a performance."
ASHLEY: Yeah. Get ready--
LIAM: I preemptively send Schmidt over to the
closest bucket.
MATT: And the range on that is-- It cannot get
more than 60 feet than you, right?
LIAM: Ja, that is correct.
MATT: Okay. So, what are the two of you doing?
TALIESIN: If you get near the fence, I'm going to
try and jump on top of the fence.
ASHLEY: Great.
TALIESIN: All right, we're going to need the
(mumbling).
SAM: Wait, you're going to jump the fence? No,
this is a distraction. You're not supposed to jump
in the--
TALIESIN: I'm going to jump on top of the fence.
SAM: Oh god.
ASHLEY: Are you going to go in or are you just
going--
TALIESIN: No, I'm just going to do the
(mumbling).
ASHLEY: Razzle dazzle?
TALIESIN: Yeah, like the razzle dazzle.
MATT: All right. So--
LIAM: Here's a question. I'm sorry. How wide
apart-- is it bars, the fence? What kind of fence
do we have?
MATT: There are large metal poles incrementally,
about every 12 or so feet. In between there it
looks like there are cross lattices of an inch
wide and a quarter-inch thick metal bars that
weave across to form the fence.
LIAM: So that bucket is not going between any of
that.
MATT: Probably not.
LIAM: Nott, would you be able to use your
invisible hand to lift that up and over?
SAM: When Schmidt comes close enough, yes.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: All right. You guys are prepared?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: I would like you to make an acrobatics check
with advantage because you're being aided by
Yasha.
MARISHA: I'll keep watch.
TALIESIN: Oof, ten.
MATT: Ten. As you reach down, grabbing the foot of
Mollymauk, with one big (grunt) you lift him, and
he tosses in the air, gracefully, arms out, almost
like a reverse swan dive into the air. You land
and (impact).
(groaning)
MATT: Land legs open, you manage to miss the vital
areas, but it definitely wracks the inside of the
thigh a little bit, a painful landing.
TALIESIN: Can I try and push up into a handstand?
MATT: You manage to do so, but it lacks the
presentational and grace element of it. Make a
performance check, but with disadvantage from the
impact.
LIAM: So when he crashes, right at that moment, I
ask Schmidt to move the bucket three feet closer
to us. Low to the ground.
TALIESIN: All right.
ASHLEY: Can I aid him-- okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah, natural 20. Oh, no, disadvantage.
15.
MATT: 15, okay. Still pretty good. So in spite of
the (strained) impact, you slowly stagger back up
to the top, balance yourself.
TALIESIN: Up and flipping back up, and I'm going
get the swords out. I'm going to start slowly
working on moving down the fence, with both swords
doing a spin and trying to actually get a little
flip going. A little acrobatic--
LIAM: Oh boy, another ten feet towards me.
TALIESIN: I'll need you spotting, 'cause I'm not
great at this.
MATT: All right, you're turning it around. It's
starting to work into your advantage. As this is
happening, Schmidt is slowly dragging, on its own,
the Unseen Servant is dragging this bucket three
feet at a time (scraping).
MARISHA: I'm keeping watch for any workers who
might be noticing the bucket.
MATT: None seem to be noticing the bucket at the
moment, but you do see about three or four that
are looking over at this very colorful, flashy,
performing, nearly wracked tiefling who is in the
process of juggling swords in the air and doing a
series of completely spontaneous performance art
for no reason.
MARISHA: Bravo. Bravo!
MATT: You see two of the nearby workers start
looking over confused, start talking to each
other. You can hear the muttering. One of them
runs off to one of the supervisor dwarves who's
about 80 to 100 feet off to go tell him what's
happening. He looks over and eventually you hear,
as Schmidt is getting closer and closer, the
bucket of tar is maybe 20 feet from the
fence-line, and you hear a voice go, "Hey! Hey!
What are you doing!? Get down from there! Get-- go
"on, get, get, get!"
TALIESIN: I'm going to jump onto your shoulders
now. So, I take a jump and try and land on the
shoulders. Straight acrobatics?
MATT: Straight acrobatics for this.
TALIESIN: All right. You go away; I'm trying you.
That's a natural 20.
ASHLEY: Ooh.
MATT: (flipping) (impact) Landing right onto
Yasha's shoulders. She catches you there, and
you're still, from their perspective you jumped
off of the fence and landed behind the fence, and are--
ASHLEY: I'm going to do a little side by side
walking to make it look like he's--
TALIESIN: Sorry, you had a great fence, and we're
working on an act!
MATT: Make a deception check.
TALIESIN: It's true.
MARISHA: Nott, how close does Mage Hand have to
be?
SAM: It could go now, but we can't go fast,
they'll see a moving bucket.
LIAM: Yeah, we don't want it off the ground.
TALIESIN: That's nine.
MATT: Nine, okay. It's not that they don't buy it, they're just
more caught off-guard by your presence, and not
listening to the words you're saying. The one
supervisor who keeps rushing forward goes, "You
"know, lad, you don't have permission. Show me
your--" At which point you see Cleff, looking
nervously, steps forward and goes, "Hello there.
Cleff Tinkertop, we're all right. They're with
"me." The dwarf comes to a slow jog, to a stop, and
goes, "Cleff, what the fuck are you doing down
"here?" Schmidt drags the bucket about 15 feet off
to the side, and it is near the base of the fence.
SAM: Okay, I'll cast Mage Hand.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Are people looking right now?
MATT: Yes, they are looking.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: It's about 15-20 feet to the left, but
they're currently focused on your group, which is
gathered at the edge of the yard where they
assemble all of their very powerful military
weapons.
TALIESIN: We should be at separate ends of the
fence right now, because I made my way down the
fence with Yasha.
MATT: Right, so it was about 30 feet, we'll say.
So are you attempting to--
SAM: I'm just going to wait until they finish
their conversation.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: I'll try to edge it a little closer still.
I'd like to get it near the fence, if I can.
MATT: It's actually right now, with that final
scoot from Schmidt, it's right up against the
fence on the opposite side.
LIAM: Okay, then I'm just going to wait for the
right moment. Then I'll have Schmidt lift it over
his head, but not yet.
MATT: Okay. At this point, the dwarf rushes up to
the edge and peers through and goes, "So, strange
"arrivals you got here, Cleff, and a couple of
loonies diving off the outside of our very
"well-protected fence, but sure. Cleff, what's your
business with these assholes?" He's like, "We're
"making our way to try and make right some mistakes
I've made, certainly, hopefully." He glances through
with a bit of a tightened gaze and goes, "All
right. Well, just keep them off my fence."
TALIESIN: A lovely fence it is.
MATT: Turns around and starts walking back to his
post.
SAM: As he starts walking, I'll nod to Caleb and
try to do the lift over the fence.
LIAM: Oh, jeez, I go--
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check to see if you
can make the right timing and do so swift enough
to where nobody seems to notice.
SAM: Sleight of hand? 22.
MATT: With that, as soon as the dwarf turns around
and all the rest of the workers go right back
simultaneously, seeing that this encounter is
over, turn back to their work. (whooshing) Without
a sound, rises over the fence and is now at your
disposal on the opposite end.
SAM: Yeah!
ASHLEY: Hopefully that will do something.
SAM: We have a bucket of tar! Part one of our plan
is complete.
LIAM: That's how you do it. You set them up, and
knock them down.
SAM: Look at that teamwork.
MARISHA: It was pretty good.
SAM: Yeah, everybody contributed a little. Except
for Jester and Fjord, everyone was really good.
TALISIN: When do they ever contribute, really?
MATT: (laughter) Rissa goes, "All right, that's the first
part of it. What's next?"
ASHLEY: I guess we head to the prison.
MARISHA: To the prison!
SAM: Let's put the tar bucket in the haversack of
holding, if that's possible. If it will fit.
MARISHA: Will it tip over in the bag?
MATT: She takes it and slowly puts it inside. It
will fit in the larger one, so it slips inside the
bag. She closes it. "Okay. Are you sure it won't
turn over?"
MARISHA and TALIESIN: No.
SAM: I don't know.
MATT: "I don't want to ruin my bag."
TALIESIN: Then we don't have to put it in. We'll
just carry it.
MATT: "I paid good money for it, and it's so
pretty."
TALIESIN: We'll carry it.
SAM: Then we're carrying a bucket of tar. Is that
weird?
TALIESIN: We're going in to kill a robot. It's
fine.
SAM: All right. We'll just carry it.
TALIESIN: What else do you bring into a -- What do
they think we're going to do with a bucket of tar?
ASHLEY: I'll take it.
MATT: Carefully hands it to Yasha.
TALIESIN: Let's lean into it.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Rissa continues pushing you now away from
the Assembly Yard, back into the Iron Lot, and
towards the exterior of the Gearhold Prison.
There, on the outside of this doorway, there's
about a dozen crownsguard, mostly gnomish, two
human. It looks like they're both currently
decorated with a bit more detail, probably sent
from the capital, or at least are given a little
more of import to the outside of this guarding
post. As you approach, you can see these large
metal doors. There are two of them, and they open
in the center, and there are a set of smaller
doors built in the base of each of the sides. As
you approach, some of the crownsguard look over
curiously at this interesting, wayward group
making their way towards the outside. Three of
them begin to approach, and one of the humans in
the more intricate crownsguard uniform approaches,
throwing the cloak over his shoulder, and you can
see his hand resting on the handle of his
now-sheathed sword. "Hey, who goes there? What is
your business?"
MARISHA: We are a contracted group of workers,
working for this man right here, Cleff. We're here
to take care of the problem that we heard you guys
had with the clockwork warden.
MATT: Cleff pulls the hood back a bit and goes,
"Hello." Guy takes a moment and looks. Make a
persuasion check with advantage, because Cleff is
helping you.
SAM: Yeah. Persuasive Beau.
MARISHA: I stole this die that I got you from
forever ago. It's got the little d20 inside of it.
I'll take the 12, for 13.
MATT: The guard steps back a bit, looks you over.
"All right. Hold tight a second, I'm going to
"summon the warden. Just a moment." He steps to one
of the small doors that opens, and he disappears inside.
SAM: How many doors are there?
MATT: There's the two large main doors, about 15
feet tall, about 20 foot wide, and then there's
smaller doors, normal person-sized, almost
gnomish-sized, doors built into it from that
point. You actually watch as the human crownsguard
has to duck a little bit to go through the smaller
door frame. He's gone for about five minutes or
so, and then returns and says, "The Wardenhelm
"would wish to speak to you, if you wouldn't mind
stepping inside. Don't mind the escort; it's
"common business."
MARISHA: What did you say the warden's name was?
MATT: It's Wardenhelm Poppin Drokrusher.
MARISHA: Wardenhelm Poppin--
MATT: Poppin Drokrusher.
MARISHA: Drokrusher.
TALIESIN: Poppin Drok-- I won't. I won't speak.
I'm not going to speak.
MATT: He's like, "Gnomish names."
TALIESIN: I feel that.
MATT: At that point, you guys are led inside the
dark interior. As soon as you step into the shadow
of the entryway of this prison, you go from the
industrial and somewhat colorless Iron Lot that
you've been traveling through to this very
low-lit, reddish, almost oxidized iron interior
that is just shadow and torches. You can see these
large support beams of metal put against the rock
and stone that has been carved out of the interior
of the mountain. It's just one long hallway that
splinters off into a number of hallways to the
right and left before it reaches the outside of
your current visual range to make any more detail
out of it. At this point, as you enter, about five
more of the crownsguard follow behind you and keep
you all as a small pack traveling. At this point,
he begins to move forward and gestures for you all
to follow, saying, "This way." Leads you down the
hall, scooting to the right and heads to the right
at the very first branching hallway of the
interior of the prison. Heading further down,
there's a few doors that are open, and on the
inside they appear to be empty, or there's a few
other guards. On the interior, you don't see much
in the way of crownsguard, you see a different
type of guard. Similar garb, but more drab, and
you get the sense that they're-- this is an
internal prison guard, this isn't part of the
paid, trained, citywide guard. These are the
interior Hupperdook prison guards. No more than
maybe another 40 or so feet down, there's a
doorway that's open that leads into an office. On
the inside of this office, which itself is also
super darkly lit, you see two ember torches that
give this very dull red glow on the inside of the
room, so it has this somewhat ominous and dreary
interior presence to it as you step into this
chamber. The desk is facing away from you, and
there you see an older and grizzled gnome, who is
in the process of wearing these series of robes
and cloak over him with these gold-colored tassels
and epaulets that shoot off the sides, seems to be
giving out an air of station and importance, even
though it's just in the process of filing what
looks to be either prison transfers or people that
have been arrested and figuring out who's to be
put in here and why, or whose business is going to
come to an end soon. He's in the process of
shuffling through papers before turning around to
you and goes, "All right, so, you have come to my
"prison." Stands up and turns around to you,
clicking his feet together as he does so at
attention, arms crossed. "Hello. I'm the
Wardenhelm Poppin. You have bothered me from my
"work, and I would like to know why." As you look
at him, you can see his hair has receded almost
entirely to the back, and what bits of clustered
gray hair on the sides he’s currently attempted to
slick and comb back, and one large part of it is
trying to cover the massive bald spot, but as he
spins around and talks to you, with any sort of
movement it wobbles and has to settle itself back
into place.
TALIESIN: Beau--
MARISHA: First off--
TALIESIN: I tap Beau on the back and make her bow
a little bit.
MARISHA: You don't have to-- okay.
MATT: "Respectful. I appreciate that."
TALIESIN: Pull her back up.
MATT: Rissa has backed away to the doorway and is
like-- and doesn't want any part in this.
MARISHA: Yeah. Same, Rissa, same. We will not take
up much of your time if you just let us in to go
kill this clockwork warden that this guy made. We
heard he was quite a problem. Just let us in;
we'll be out of your hair, and you can get back to
your work.
MATT: "Wait, what are you--" And he looks over
towards the cloaked gnomish figure to the side.
"What?"
MARISHA: Remember this guy?
MATT: He leans forward, and as the cloak is pulled
back, Cleff reveals his face a bit. He goes,
"Hello there. It's been a while. How are you
doing, Poppin?" He's like, "Interesting riffraff
"you're bringing to my home this day."
MARISHA: Why do people keep calling us that?
TALIESIN: To be fair, we are.
MATT: "I was referring to Cleff! Cleff, why do you
come and bother me with my day's work? What do you
"want? You're saying something about your little
mistake, your problem?"
MARISHA: Look, this guy is funding to take care of
the spinning death machine that's in your guys'
basement. This should be a city-funded issue, but
this guy is being a good, noble citizen and
funding it himself so we can come and make a quick
buck and kill your death robot. Can we please just
go kill your damn death robot?
MATT: He looks at Cleff. "Is this true?" Cleff
nods. "Actually, yes. I know it's been a problem
"for a while and I figured, about time I cleaned up
that mess myself, if you don't mind." The
Wardenhelm stops for a second and looks amongst
the rest of you. "Right, okay. You have what
"appears to be an interesting crew of exterminators
you've brought to me. What do you want from me? I
"assume you have come here for trade or for looking
for some sort of recompense. I would like to know
"what that is before we move further into this. No
one steps inside here wishing to do us, how you
"say? Charity work."
TALIESIN: Oh, of course. That makes perfect sense,
and of course a man of your stature would be smart
enough to know that such a thing is true. We,
honestly-- we will admit we may have a favor, a
very minor favor, to ask if everything goes well
and we do, in fact, survive this encounter. In
return, also, we will be gathering very valuable
data on how to defeat these sort of automatons,
which will be put into your possession and would
definitely help you deliver something that could
help with the war effort. This sort of data could
get back to the people in charge and help them
defeat machines in the future. We're trying new
techniques, new ways to defeat these sort of automatons.
MARISHA: You look like a man who's willing to
climb a ladder.
TALIESIN: I think you could go far. We'd be happy
to help.
MARISHA: War is a great time for opportunity, my
friend.
TALIESIN: We may discuss, perhaps, if we can
help-- we have two friends who are currently in
your system, and we would be more than happy to
discuss a means of maybe resolving their issue
with you. Not innocence, but just coming to a
conclusion that is mutually agreeable.
MATT: Make a persuasion check with advantage,
with aiding from Beau and a very persuasive
argument, actually.
TALIESIN: Man, I love bullshitting.
MARISHA: (laughs) High-fivesies from across the
table.
TALIESIN: Persuasion? God, please, for once in
your miserable life. Oh man, eight.
MATT: Oh, buddy.
LIAM: Not life, just this campaign, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: I know.
MATT: "Well, perhaps we can discuss, but I would
like to see possibly this deed you wish to do done
"first. I do not wish to talk contracts with those
who are about to die, if you know what I'm saying."
TALIESIN: Hardly waste your time.
MARISHA: Who would?
MATT: "Very well." He looks past you to the escort
of guards that have followed you in. "Lead them to
"the subterranean sealed chamber. Allow them to
encounter our issue, and should they survive,
"return them to me with proof of the deed. Should
they not survive, we will not speak of this ever
"again. Good luck. I will be here waiting to hear
of your successful endeavor. Now, leave me to my
"work." He goes and sits back down in his chair.
SAM: We're doing this now?
TALIESIN: Of course we are. Anyone want the node?
SAM: If I'm going to be throwing tar at this
thing, maybe I should have it.
TALIESIN: Or Caleb. Well, who's going to be
throwing --
MARISHA: Who's going to be throwing the tar? You
with your Mage Hand, maybe?
SAM: I could.
TALIESIN: We'll heat it up. Caleb will heat it up,
you'll throw it in, and then I'll be using some
ice to try and cool the thing down once it's in
there.
MARISHA: Yasha and I can try and pin it down,
maybe corner it.
TALIESIN: Once it starts opening up the armor,
we'll just go to that one particular plate and
start ripping a hole in it.
MARISHA: Start ripping the plates off.
TALIESIN: Chopping the plates off.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LIAM: Let's heat that tar up before entering.
MARISHA: Let's get to the door, heat it up--
TALIESIN: We'll get through doors, set the node,
set everything we need into action.
MATT: Cleff and Rissa balk there as you guys are
having this conversation. Rissa goes, "If it's not
"a problem, I'll stay here with my dad and we'll
just wait to hear what happens. We're not much in
"the way of charging into the fray."
LIAM: Of course. You have tasked experts with this
job.
MATT: Of course. Cleff pushes past and goes, "But
before you go, I just want once more to express my
"extreme gratitude for your putting yourself out
there for my well-being. A Tinkertop never forgets
"these deeds, and should you return safely, I will
be in your debt." He bows and the cloak (thumps)
onto the ground,and he goes, "Oh." He picks it
back up and bows a little less this time.
MARISHA: Any last tips, Cleff?
MATT: "Be careful?"
MARISHA: That's a good one.
TALIESIN: What kind of feet does it have again?
MATT: "Oh, it doesn't have feet. It rolls."
TALIESIN: Ball bearings?
MARISHA: Hamster ball.
TALIESIN: We'll see. Slow it down. I don't know,
we'll find out.
MARISHA: I don't know.
SAM: All right. So the guards will take us down?
MATT: You guys currently have a group of six
crownsguard from the outside and a couple of
prison guards that will lead you there.
TALIESIN: Tank this, and you'll be all right. It's
just swords.
ASHLEY: I want to get a good look at it, but this
sounds like a fun challenge.
TALIESIN: Fjord, you got a plan? Jester?
MATT: Jester goes, "Well, don't die, and if you
fall over, I'll try to get you not on the ground anymore."
SAM: She can't. She's out of spells.
MATT: How is she out of spells? You guys took a
long rest.
SAM: Didn't we use a bunch?
TALIESIN: No, we took a long rest.
MATT: She used two Locate Objects, I know that.
SAM: Those are high-level spells.
MATT: They're 2nd-level, I think. Isn't it?
SAM: Okay. Does it say how many spells she has
left?
TALIESIN: It should.
MATT: Yeah, Locate Object is 2nd-level.
MARISHA: To be fair, I think we were going to
rest, and we decided against it. We decided to go.
SAM: Oh, it reset, but she definitely had used
some.
MARISHA: We know she used two--
MATT: She's used two 2nd-level spells.
ASHLEY: She has used two 2nd-level spells?
MATT: So we'll mark those in there. If she had
another, it's fine. She's not here to keep track.
TALIESIN: Do we want her to have anything
pre-cast? I don't think Duplicity will matter, but
maybe a Spiritual Weapon already called up?
LIAM: Spiritual Weapon is a good idea.
TALIESIN: Just have it already. Let's--
MATT: Well, it only lasts for a minute.
TALIESIN: Oh, then let's wait then. All right.
SAM: In case this all goes tits-up, do we want to
try to talk to these guards and maybe figure out
what cell the Schusters are in?
TALIESIN: You're welcome to try.
SAM: I'm not talking to them. But someone with
more charisma than me?
TALIESIN: Certainly not me.
MARISHA: Fjord's literally the only one that can
charm a guard. Unless we bribe a guard.
LIAM: That is incorrect.
SAM: Oh. Charming Caleb.
LIAM: (clears throat) I can speak when I have to.
MARISHA: Do some Suggestion stuff?
SAM: I mean, is that worth doing now?
LIAM: No I can just talk.
TALIESIN: I mean, if we die, does it matter?
SAM: No, but I mean if the warden doesn't give us
what we want.
TALIESIN: We can talk to the guards on the way
out.
SAM: Okay. But we're in the prison.
TALIESIN: Yeah, but we're going to be in the
prison when we're done.
SAM: All right.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
SAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: (laughs) Assuming we live.
MATT: The guards have led you away from that end
of the chamber, down the hall, back to the main
hallway that enters deeper into the Gearhold
Prison. Following that down for another 80 or so
feet, that main open hallway comes to an end, and
there are a number of other small hallways that
protrude. The guards lead you down the one on the
left. You can see two immediately that branch off
on the far end of that main open way. That
left-side pathway leads to a set of stairs that
spirals down to a second floor. Then a third
floor. Then a fourth floor. The fourth floor is
the bottom of these stairs, and you're now
probably guessing, from the time it's taken you to
descend the spiral staircase, maybe an additional
100 to 120 feet below the entrance and the actual
level base of the mountain. At this point, you
continue down a hallway and there are cells to
your right and left. As you enter the space, the
cells are very well-fortified, and behind the
bars, in the dark, dark red ember-like torchlight
that faintly glows and lights elements of this
hallway, as you continue down, you can see shapes,
humanoid shapes locked behind bars, of all shapes
and sizes. As you begin to pass one on the right,
you watch as a figure lurches up to the bars,
pushes up to the edge, and what faint bit of red
light you can see illuminating a face that looks
scarred by a large, heavy clawmark down one side,
the eye glued shut from the healing process. You
see this toothy, rotten grin underneath as a nasty
smell of breath emanates from its heavy breathing,
and as you pass by, it says, "Hey. Are you going
to come back, are you? Where are you going? Where
"are you going? Come back!" And you walk past. One
of the guards takes their shortsword and clangs it
across the metal and goes, "Keep back, keep back."
TALIESIN: Mr. Schuster, you look terrible! I yell
very loud to see if anybody responds to the name.
MATT: To what name?
TALIESIN: Mr. Schuster.
MATT: Schuster? Okay. You listen. Make a
perception check.
SAM: Yeah, sure.
TALIESIN: Oh, that's a 15.
MATT: Okay. You listen out, and you hear a few
voices chuckle and some shifting of people that
are now making their way to the front of the cell
to see what this arriving group of strangers is,
but nothing out of the expected ordinary reacting
to that name.
TALIESIN: Worth a shot.
MATT: A few other figures push their way to the
face, and you can see men and women, you can see
decrepit half-elves that look poorly nourished.
You can see humans that look like they've smeared
themselves with their own foul excrement. You can
see a whole nature of people that are in the
process of dealing with being locked down here in
the subterranean basement level of this prison.
And then, at the end, you come to what looks to be
an iron door that is currently sealed shut, with
what looks to be rung after rung after rung of
chains pulled through, across bars, locked with
three padlocks.
MARISHA: Is this the door?
MATT: The main guard sitting there goes, "Aye, it
is." He pulls out a ring of keys.
TALIESIN: When's the last time you opened it?
MATT: "When we sealed it."
ASHLEY: Which was--?
MATT: "About a little over two years ago."
MARISHA: How big is this chamber in here?
MATT: "It leads down, splits in the middle, and
has two more sets of cells in the back side."
MARISHA: Splits in the middle, two more sets of
cells on the back side. So it looks like a big
fork. Does it have a common way? Or is this thing
patrolling halls?
MATT: "I don't know."
LIAM: And what will happen when we go inside here?
Are you locking us in?
MATT: "Damn right."
TALIESIN: Until we knock on the door, I imagine.
LIAM: Until which.
MATT: With that, one latch, and one lock comes
free, pulls it off, and hands it to the guard.
SAM: I'm going to look at the--
MATT: Second lock, comes free.
SAM: --the dodecahedron while we're at it.
MATT: You take a moment to concentrate on it.
MARISHA: Should we heat up the tar?
TALIESIN: Let's heat up the tar.
LIAM: Okay Nott, can you lift that thing up for
me?
SAM: Lift?
TALIESIN: I'll hold it since you're doing the
thing.
SAM: Oh, sure.
LIAM: Well, it's going to scald the bejeezus out
of your hands if I--
SAM: Okay, I'll use Mage Hand to hold it up.
TALIESIN: I also have immunity to flame, so, or
not quite immunity, but I don't really mind flame.
LIAM: Well, I could semi-burn your hands, or not
burn Nott's make-believe one.
SAM: Yeah, I'll hold it with my Mage Hand.
MATT: All right. So with that, the bucket of tar
is now being held aloft from the floating,
spectral Mage Hand that Nott is controlling.
TALIESIN: We'll probably need some light in here,
too.
MARISHA: So, he can cast two spells; they have to
be at third level.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: And his cantrips are-- So if he casts
Armor of Agathys, it's going to take up one
of his levels.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: And Hex would be another one?
LIAM: Everybody back away from this bucket. And I
crackle my hands and send a Fire Bolt at the
bottom of it.
MATT: All right. So being careful not to destroy
the bucket itself, which, while it is made of
metal, you're uncertain of its structural
integrity, but you do focus on a little, slow burn
of this flame, controlling the Fire Bolt to be a
gradual burn. As you do, you watch as the metal
iron of the bottom of this bucket begin to heat to
a dull orange, into a brighter orange. And after a
few moments of concentrating, you can see a faint
(bubbling). The tar seems to be heating and to a
fairly more liquidy consistency than its rather
cold and more solid form that you found it in.
TALIESIN: Excellent.
LIAM: That is the most relaxed that spell has ever
gone.
MATT: (laughs) At which point the third lock comes
off. The guards begin pulling the chains through
the various loops until eventually the door is
exposed, (creaking) opens. And on the inside,
there's a few steps that descend into what looks
to be a double door beyond that. One of the doors
is partially opened and it is darkness with a
faint red glow beyond that.
MARISHA: This place is creepy as shit.
TALIESIN: I turn to one of the guards. Is there
any light in there, or are we going to need to
bring our own?
MATT: "There's probably some light, but it
wouldn't hurt to bring your own, especially for
"that one." And points to Caleb.
LIAM: Yasha, could I borrow a torch from you?
ASHLEY: Yes, of course.
LIAM: So your hands are free to work.
ASHLEY: Yes. Good idea. Here.
LIAM: Danke.
MARISHA: Fjord's going to cast Armor of Agathys on
himself.
MATT: So as Fjord touches the front of his chest
armor, you watch as the cold air solidifies,
getting this mist and bits of ice crystal
protruding from his leather armor.
MARISHA: Hope that is a good call. What would
Fjord do? And Beau puts on her goggles.
MATT: You got it.
MARISHA: (like Fjord) Eldritch Blast.
MATT: As all of you are ushered past the metal
door, the guards all gather on the opposite side,
and the lead guard of the unit goes, "Very well.
May the Platinum Dragon guide you." Closes the
door and you hear the chains on the opposite side
being locked, as you all turn back, looking down
the six or seven feet of descending stairs before
it levels into the double doors, partially opened
and the darkness beyond. And that's where we're
going to take a quick break.
SAM: Ah! Oh, but we were about to fight.
MATT: Well, we're going to dive into that, just
because if we go into a battle, it might take a
little while. We'll take the break now, before
that, and then we can dive into it immediately as
we return.
LIAM: Let's try diplomacy.
MATT: Perfect. Shiny blade balls are easy to talk
to.
MARISHA: Dear spinning death machine.
TALIESIN: Fantasmagoria. I'm definitely having
some, yeah.
MATT: All righty, guys. So, we'll be back here in
a few minutes, we're going to take a five or ten
minute break to get ourselves comfy, (like Rissa) "food,
water, and other releases of functions."
MARISHA: Thanks, Rissa.
MATT: And we'll see you guys here in just a
moment, so hang tight in the chat if you want to.
We'll have a couple of fun videos to watch, and
once again, if you haven't seen the Kickstarter of
these awesome minis, you can go to critrole.com
for all that information. They have the links
there to the Kickstarter. The guys at Steamforged
have done an amazing job and we hope you like
them. All right, we'll see you here in a few
minutes.
MATT: And welcome back. Wow.
(laughter)
LIAM: Wow indeed.
MATT: Indeed. So welcome back. Coming back into
the game. You have all descended down and reached
the double doors, partially open, and stepped
quietly into the interior chamber of this sealed
portion of the Gearhold Prison. There is what
looks like a faint flicker of those same
ember-light torches that give off faint bits of
red glow, but a number the walls seem to have been
damaged. Actually, as you step inside, you get a
quick look. The doors that are behind you and the
walls around you are scraped and gashed from
hundreds and hundreds of blade marks. It looks
like whatever in here has spent a lot of time
grinding around and looking of a means of escape
or patrolling with its blades out over and over
again. Parts of the walls have fallen in a bit and
there is rubble in areas where it's starting to
erode away the interior of this sealed chamber.
But everywhere you look: to the right, left, and
along the ground all you see are hundreds and
hundreds of blade-like grooves in the stone.
SAM: That's not good.
ASHLEY: This is as, you know, I've heard the kids
say these days: Creepy AF.
TALIESIN: Actually, it's got eyes and not ears, I
don't think. When we saw the blueprints was there
any way for it to detect sound or was it all
visual?
MATT: Without your massive intelligence roll, you
weren't able to discern that information, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: All right.
MARISHA: (whispering) I'm going to assume yes. Hey
Jester! (cooing)
TALIESIN: Let's pretend we're whispering.
MARISHA: (cooing) Okay. Maybe Pass Without a
Trace, Jester? (cooing)
TALIESIN: We can do that. Let's cast Pass Without
a Trace. I'm going to light up my sword.
MATT: That is a 2nd-level spell, if I recall.
TALIESIN: That would be our last 2nd-level spell.
Wait, let's--
MARISHA: Maybe not.
TALIESIN: Maybe not Pass Without a Trace, because
once it sees us it doesn't matter anymore.
So let's not do that yet.
MARISHA: Okay. Nevermind. Keep going.
TALIESIN: I'm going to light up my swords.
MATT: Both of them?
TALIESIN: Yeah, with ice.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: That brings me down to 49 hit points, so
that's fun. Wow, that’ll be a lot of fun. That's
thrilling. There's a door over there. Do you want
to sneak over and see?
SAM: Sure. I'll sneak over to the door and try to
unlock it.
MATT: Over here?
SAM: Or see if it's locked.
MATT: All right. It is a set of prison bars. There
is a gate that is currently locked. The bars
themselves, once again, you can see rows and rows
of gashes and scrapes across the metal. They're
bowed in a bit from impacts repeatedly. It's
slightly bent inward. You can attempt to pick a
lock, if you'd like.
SAM: I'll pick a lock.
MATT: Go ahead and roll. That's proficiency bonus
plus dexterity.
SAM: That's is a 14.
MATT: A 14. (clicking) It's not triggering the
lock. These are not easy locks to get through.
They're designed to hold prisoners, unfortunately,
so they're fairly hardy locks. You spend a while
with it and are unable to hit those tumblers. It
looks like it's not going to open. Make a
perception check as you're looking through the
bars.
SAM: Four.
LIAM: I sneak up behind Nott.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: (whispering) I can open this if you need me
to. I just like to save my shit.
SAM: I don't know what's in it. I can't see
anything through it, can I?
MATT: Not with that perception roll, no. You see
bits of rock. You see some cloth on the ground, that's it.
MARISHA: Caleb, maybe save your shit for
afterwards.
LIAM: Also if I were to unlock it, it would be
loud, so that's not good.
TALIESIN: Can we put some light in there and maybe
take a look at what's in there?
SAM: What's in that room?
TALIESIN: Yeah. Since we have an orb up, don't we?
No, we have a torch.
MATT: Yasha, you have the torch right? No, Caleb
has the torch.
TALIESIN: Caleb, you want to use the torch to take
a look in there, maybe? I'm keeping an eye through
this hallway and I think I'm going to slowly start
scooting.
MATT: Start scooting this way?
TALIESIN: But against the wall.
SAM: What an amazing mini.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MATT: Yeah. These are the painted prototypes to
give you a little bit of a glance of what these
will look like. There are a few changes for the
final designs, of course, but these will give you
an idea. All righty. There's Molly on that side.
Caleb, as you hold the torch up at the bars and
look through, make a perception check with
advantage. As you're following off Nott's lead and
it's small chamber, you can make out quite a bit
of detail.
LIAM: Oh, that's good. 19.
MATT: Good. Glancing inside, you see that whatever
scrape marks that mar the interior of this main
chamber, there are none within this cell. Whatever
this creature, this Gearkeeper construct is, it
did not manage to breach these gates. However, on
the opposite side you see three different bed
set-ups for prisoners. Some that seem, either they
were trying to claw their way out, or the impact
of slamming on the other walls caused bits of it
to fall in and collapse. There are piles of stone
and fallen earth on the other side. You see three
skeletons. They look like they've been decomposing
for quite some time. Probably prisoners that
couldn't escape, and had no other way out.
ASHLEY: That's sucks.
SAM: That's rough.
LIAM: Okay, we can check this off our list,
probably. There are some dead inmates in here.
SAM: If the thing comes out here we're all dead so
we should probably figure out a way to stop it.
TALIESIN: We can all get in that room if we have
to.
SAM: All right, but I can't open it.
MARISHA: Normally you don't want to get trapped in
a room with something bigger and spinning with
12 blades. I think we'd be better off holding
this choke point.
TALIESIN: That's the hope, but we have these other
options over here. Is there anything I can see
from my perspective, from where I'm standing right
now?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: I knew you’d say that. That's a 16.
MATT: Your dark vision is 60 feet correct? You can
just make out the details of another interior
chamber. Looking within, portions of the walls
inside are also equally scraped apart. Edges of
the fine, well-set stonework have been marred with
repeated gashes all over. It looks like beyond
that there was another prison cell, but those bars
have been breached, as they are currently bent,
gnarled, and twisted and pulled out of place. The
cell beyond it appears to be open.
MARISHA: I'm going to move up and go to the
opposite side of where Molly is and peek down the
opposite way, just like he did.
MATT: Anybody else moving anywhere?
LIAM: While people are moving around the room I
whisper: Just for our options here. If we want to
kick this off and don't mind getting its
attention, I can magically unlock this door here,
which will make a sound, and then instantly lock
it. If we wanted to, we could all hustle inside
here, and maybe attack at range? Just as an
option.
SAM: Does the door have holes?
MATT: The door is open but there are bars on
this.
SAM: That's not a door, it's just a cage.
MATT: Yes, and it's partially bent inward from the
impact. It looks like it sustained quite a bit of
brunt force to it over time.
LAIM: That would put Beau and Yasha at a
disadvantage, but the rest of us could take pot
shots at it from in here.
MARISHA: You know, I like that idea. Maybe Yasha
and I can stand and hide and crouch in the corners
while you guys get its attention and shoot it from
range. What I would be afraid of is if we were all
in there, and it eventually did what it did to
those bars over there, and busted in. And we were
all sitting ducks on the inside.
LIAM: Well I could be wrong, but with what I know
how to do, I don't think it can do that to this
door, for a short amount of time.
MARISHA: It looks like it--
TALIESIN: Do you have a plan?
LIAM: Well, I'm talking about magic. I can
magically seal this door. Unless it has a way to
deal with that, it will not be able to get
through.
SAM: That's pretty good. Let's move quickly,
though.
MATT: Make an intelligence check, Caleb, if you
don't mind.
LIAM: That is 15.
MATT: 15. Okay. You were referring. I believe, to
the spell Arcane Lock, right?
LIAM: "Impassable until it is broken, or the spell
is dispelled or suppressed."
MATT: Yep. It can still be forced open; it's just
a higher DC to do so. It's possible, but it makes
it a much harder door to break through.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: You have a valid point to what you're
saying, yes.
MARISHA: Can I still complete my perception check
and see if I see down here?
MATT: Go for it. Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Not great. Seven.
MATT: Seven? Unfortunately, even with your
darkvision, it's hard to look past that way. You
can see another chamber. At your current vantage
point, it's a little bit out of the way. It looks
like there's not enough information. You'd have to
get a little closer to make out the details.
MARISHA: Is there anything that would warrant a
couple people hiding while some people got in the
thing? Is there something that looks like Yasha
and I could maybe hide? I'm a little disadvantage
looking at this angle.
MATT: There are some piles of rubble and portions
of the walls that have collapsed inwards.
TALIESIN: So you can get up and get a little
height if you want and we can also--
SAM: If we went inside that room, though--
TALIESIN: Those with range.
SAM: The creature would probably give up and go
back into hiding until we came out, I would assume.
TALIESIN: Maybe, maybe not. Maybe it would keep
pounding until you died.
MARISHA: You could still Mage Hand the tar between
the bars, right?
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: Let's try it!
TALIESIN: We don't even have to put the tar
inside, it could be outside.
MARISHA: That's what I'm saying. Caleb, can you
lift that gate spell if we need to get back out?
LIAM: Yeah, instantly.
TALIESIN: All right, Yasha, we're going to be on
the outside, then?
ASHLEY: Yep.
SAM: That's scary and dangerous.
TALIESIN: This is scary and dangerous work.
MARISHA: Wait, are you and Yasha going to be on
the outside?
TALIESIN: Well, we don't have any range.
MARISHA: Neither do I.
TALIESIN: You're going to be on the outside too. I
thought we'd put all the ranged people in there
and draw its attention to attack them, and then
while it's there we can all gang up on it.
ASHLEY: Three Amigos?
SAM: It's a terrible idea, but go for it.
MATT: So, what are you guys doing?
MARISHA: Yeah, let's do it.
LIAM: So you bruisers, you're staying out here?
MARISHA: But we're going to hide amongst this
rubble on the opposite side and you guys are going to start.
MATT: Yasha, where are you moving to?
ASHLEY: We're going to hide behind the rubble.
MATT: Right here?
ASHLEY: And Beau as well.
MATT: Beau, you're moving over here as well?
MARISHA: Yeah. Can I get up on top of the rubble
and crouch down?
TALIESIN: I'm going to attempt to hide in the
corner.
MATT: It's going to be hard to hide and climb it
as well. We can do about there, as good as we can get, there.
TALIESIN: Oh, Yasha, before I forget, I got you
something.
ASHLEY: You did?
TALIESIN: I hand her one of the silk flowers from
the festival. It doesn't press well, but, you know.
ASHLEY: It is going to be very special. Thank you,
Molly.
TALIESIN: Got for you if we live.
MATT: Molly, are you staying there?
TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm going to stay super crouched.
SAM: Does Jester have her Spiritual Weapon out?
MATT: She doesn't yet.
SAM: Okay. Maybe we should get it ready.
LIAM: Wait.
SAM: Wait, what?
LIAM: I do not have the components I need for
Arcane Lock. Damn it.
MARISHA: What do you need?
LIAM: A lot of gold dust.
MARISHA: A lot of gold dust?
SAM: We can make some, right now!
MARISHA: I know! Can we grind some gold really
fast? File some?
SAM: Quietly!
MARISHA: Quietly file down gold coins?
SAM: All right, well, plan B.
ASHLEY: Plan B. That's fine.
SAM: Do you want me to scout ahead to the area
that you've seen?
TALIESIN: Or the cat.
SAM: Or the cat, yes. How about the cat goes to
the area where Molly has seen. Which, Liam, for
you, is the bottom left of the picture I sent
you.
MATT: So where are you sending Frumpkin?
LIAM: Into the last unexplored room.
SAM: No, this is the one that--
TALIESIN: The first unexplored room.
SAM: The first explored room, that Molly has seen
a little bit of.
LIAM, Sorry. I was looking at my spellbook and not
paying attention to you lot. What were you
hoping me to do?
SAM: Send the cat.
TALIESIN: Sending the cat to take a look--
MARISHA: Scout with the cat. Kitty scout.
TALIESIN: This may be the end of the cat.
LIAM: Yeah, okay. I'm going to back as far away
from that door as I can, and I will send Frumpkin in.
MATT: Moving back in the corner with Beau and
Yasha. Right about there, we'll say.
LIAM: Ladies.
MATT: You begin to focus and Frumpkin heads to the
right side of the fork into the chamber you've
already looked into, towards the open cell doors
that are currently pried off that archway. As
Frumpkin glances past, make a stealth check for
Frumpkin.
LIAM: Yep. Oh. I don't have the cat paper with me
in this state that I'm in, because I didn't know
I'd be playing.
MATT: That's okay.
LIAM: So I rolled a 15.
MATT: Rolled a 15? Okay.
LIAM. Yeah. Let's go with that.
TALIESIN: 15 plus cat.
MATT: All right. Frumpkin glances inside this
busted cell and sees-- what I’m using as an
interpretation of-- a large spherical metal object
that's about eight feet diameter on any side. It
looks like a series of overlapping metal plates
that look clustered together at odd angles.
Elements of it look scraped and dented. It looks
like it's been doing some serious damage to it
over time. As it sits there, resting, and Frumpkin
approaches, you watch one of the tiny little metal
plates (squeak) open, a lens pokes out towards
Frumpkin, withdraws back in. The plate closes and
about six of these long blade-like spider legs
stick out of it as it pulls back and begins to
roll forward at a very extreme pace.
LIAM: I snap Frumpkin out of there.
MATT: It rolls forward. Frumpkin just manages to
bamf out of this dimension as the object slams
into the opposite wall. You guys feel the entire
chamber suddenly (crash) from the impact and you
hear this scraping of metal in the distance.
SAM: I'm going to re-cast Mage Hand and pick up
the bucket of tar.
MATT: It rolls across the way and disappears into
the other chamber.
MARISHA: I'm going to stealthily move forward,
back where I was across from Molly.
MATT: Go ahead and make a stealth check, please.
MARISHA: Jesus Christ. This just got really--
TALIESIN: I have an interesting idea.
MATT: Nott, where do you want to go?
SAM: Towards the narrower hallway.
MATT: Here?
SAM: Yeah, just on the edge of it. Do I hear any
movement or anything?
MATT: You do hear the same object shifting on the
other side.
MARISHA: 15.
MATT: 15? Okay.
MARISHA: Oh no.
MATT: Nott, as you're there at the edge, and
Beau's there. You glance in, now that you guys are
close enough you can see shifting in there. You
pay attention and you can see this other chamber
is open with another cell off to the side. It
slams into that door, spins around, and one of the
lenses peeks around the corner right at where Beau
had just moved into the far corner.
TALIESIN: Jester is going to cast her Spiritual
Weapon and put it right in the center of--
SAM: The room?
TALIESIN: Yeah. A big nice shiny object to
distract.
MATT: Where's Fjord going? Because we're about to
go into combat.
TALIESIN: Are we all pulling against the walls?
MARISHA: Where is Fjord going? Make Fjord go by
the gate, maybe. Back a bit. Then Beau is going to
take out those ball bearings.
ASHLEY: Can we put Jester in the corner?
MATT: Jester can back up there.
MARISHA: Let's not kill our friends’ D&amp;D
characters.
MATT: I need all of you to roll initiative.
MARISHA: If we still have a bit of an action, I'm
going to toss my bag of ball bearings and try and
throw a bunch of ball bearings right here.
LIAM: Sam, can you take a new picture and send it
to me?
MATT: You throw the ball bearings out clattering.
As that happens, the legs, which are still out,
rear backward and they retract as it runs itself
rolling forward in your direction, ricocheting off
that wall. The ball bearings, as it grinds across
the bottom, get fired off like small impact
bullets from the grinding of the metal plates and
the force of it hitting. I need both Nott and Beau
to make dexterity saving throws.
SAM: Oh god! Save? 21.
MATT: 21.
MARISHA: Oh wait, not with advantage, or no?
MATT: Not with advantage. Just a single roll.
MARISHA: Okay, 18 then.
MATT: You guys both manage to just duck out of the
way, they don't seem to hit you. It's only a
handful of them that upon the impact of it hitting
stone and being pressured beneath, they shoot off
in your direction.
MARISHA: Molly, ball bearings didn't work! Rolling
for initiative?
MATT: Initiative rolls, guys. Roll for yourself,
Beau, and then roll for Jester and Fjord as well.
TALIESIN: I'll roll for Jester.
MARISHA: I'm rolling for Fjord.
MATT: 25 to 20?
MARISHA: Hang on.
TALIESIN: So fucked.
MARISHA: Sorry. Another person's character.
MATT: 25 to 20 anybody? 20 to 15?
ASHLEY: 19.
SAM: Whoa! Who are you?
ASHLEY: I don’t know! But I don't know what to do
this early on.
TALIESIN: It's going to be a lot of dodging.
MATT: 15 to ten?
MARISHA: Fjord is 14. Beau is ten.
MATT: All right. Ten to five?
SAM: Seven.
LIAM: Six.
TALIESIN: Seven for me as well. And Jester is
six.
MATT: Caleb and Jester are in the same--
SAM: Caleb and Jester are six, Molly and Nott are
both seven.
MATT: Seven, got it! Top of the round, as you see
it come riding and curve around the corner and
slam into that wall, the stone bends inward even
further and bits of the masonry flake and fall off
to the ground, clattering and small bits of stone.
It turns, and you can see now the six spider-like
blade legs sticking out of it. Six more shoot out
of the top of it, and all begin whirling around
and begin spinning. There, amongst this chaos, you
see the lens sitting right there, just barely
peeking through its armored shell. Yasha, you're
up first.
ASHLEY: Okay, I would like to rage.
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: It's the time. Do I just go in?
SAM: This is it.
ASHLEY: Can I get to it?
MATT: (counting) You just barely get into its
range with your barbarian speed. You rush in,
anger on your face. You draw your Magician's Judge
blade in the air.
ASHLEY: Oh no.
TALIESIN: Do you have advantage?
ASHLEY: I didn't reckless. 11.
MATT: 11, unfortunately, does not hit. Your blade
scrapes across its armored exterior, not finding
purchase in any of its innards.
ASHLEY: Divine Fury, can you do it on the first or
only if the first--
MATT: The first attack that hits.
ASHLEY: That first attack that hits.
MATT: Correct.
ASHLEY: Can I use my extra attack?
MATT: Yeah, you get that every round.
ASHLEY: That’s better. That’s 21.
MATT: 21 hits! Roll damage.
SAM: This is it.
TALIESIN: We’re so fucked.
SAM: Kick it in the ball!
ASHLEY: Okay! 12.
MATT: You roll 2d6 for the weapon, 3d6 for the
Divine Fury. Oh no, it’s additional half your level.
ASHLEY: Yeah. Plus three. It’s 2d6 plus three.
MATT: 2d6 plus three, right?
ASHLEY: Yeah. So 12.
MATT: 12, and then your rage damage, which is
two.
ASHLEY: Oh right! Yeah, 14.
TALIESIN: Is it Divine Fury still?
ASHLEY: No, because that’s only the first.
MATT: Well no, it’s the first attack that hit.
That’s what I’m saying. You get Divine Fury for
this hit because your first one hit, this one does
get it.
ASHLEY: Okay! So an extra d6. Oops. Okay, an extra
two. So 16 total.
MATT: Okay. With that--
SAM: Clang!
MATT: The first strikes off. The second one you
bring down. The blade carves down and one of its
metal arms bends off to the side. The blade digs
into the gears. Yasha’s blade finds its way in.
Sparks go streaking off and the blade gets
jettisoned off. You have to hold it before it gets
shot off the side of it, the clockwork pushing it
out of its innards. The armor plate clicks over
and guards its space.
ASHLEY: Okay. I’ll stay.
TALIESIN: Did it lose a blade just now?
MATT: It looks like it’s bent back a bit. That
ends Yasha’s turn. Fjord is up next.
SAM: Yeah, Fjord!
MARISHA: Fjord’s going to cast Hex!
TALIESIN: Hex, ma’am!
MARISHA: I’m going to Hex that "robit."
TALIESIN: Hex the "robit."
MATT: The "robit" is a-hexed.
MARISHA: Hang on, wait. That doesn’t-- no. It
doesn’t mess with Armor of Agathys, just checking.
MATT: You have a concentration on Fjord for this.
MARISHA: This is Hex. Then he’s going to take his
falchion, he’s going to flip it, and from the
hilt, he’s going to go (firing). He’s going to
cast Eldritch Blast because I saw him do that once before.
MATT: Like a from-the-hip-shotgun. I like it.
MARISHA: He did it before. I’m ripping it off from
Travis.
MATT: That’s two shots. Fire twice.
MARISHA: Pew pew! 15? Seven plus eight.
MATT: Seven plus eight, 15? You fire, the blast
hits and disperses against the armor. It does not hit.
MARISHA: Right, that magic shit. He’s going to try
it one more time. That bounced. Okay, that’s
better. 13 plus seven.
MATT: 20? 20 does hit. Roll a d10 plus four plus
another d6 for Hex. Not a d4, plus four damage to
whatever you roll on the d10.
MARISHA: I’m sorry. Me don’t know how. Six, sorry.
Five plus four is nine damage.
SAM: Plus three from?
MARISHA: No, that’s it. I rolled a three and a two
plus a four. It’s not a lot of damage. I rolled crappy.
MATT: The second one does manage to pierce some of
its armor. Within the interior of it, there’s a
flash of green on the inside. You see it curl
around from the interior, looking like cracks in
the armor are suddenly glowing and then no more.
That finishes Fjord’s action and bonus action.
MARISHA: What did you roll to hit?
ASHLEY: Say again?
ASHLEY: Rolled a 21.
MARISHA: 21. So we know 20 hits.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MARISHA: Now, Beauregard--
MATT: Is Fjord going to stay where he is?
MARISHA: Yes, because I’m scared. Beau is going
to--
MATT: Beau doesn’t go yet because it’s now the
Gearkeeper’s turn.
MARISHA: I’m sorry.
MATT: That’s okay.
MARISHA: I didn’t know.
MATT: That’s all right.
SAM: The Gearkeeper.
MATT: Beginning of its turn, it’s going to attempt
to roll over Yasha to go into the chamber. Yasha,
you need to make an athletics or acrobatics
check.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: You’re raging, so you have advantage on your
acrobatics check.
TALIESIN: That athletics is already sweet,
though.
ASHLEY: Oof. Oh. Nine.
MATT: No. First off, you suffer--
ASHLEY: I rolled the wrong ones.
MATT: Seven points of piercing damage as it rolls
over and the blades kick into you.
ASHLEY: Is that halved because I’m raging?
MATT: It is halved. An additional three points of
bludgeoning damage as you are crushed beneath its
weight, and you are knocked prone.
ASHLEY: That’s a total of-- you said three and--
I’m sorry.
MATT: It was seven before three. So it’ll be ten
halved, so you take five points of damage.
ASHLEY: Five points of damage, okay.
MATT: It does roll past here, stopping at this
point. It’d be about here, I think. As it spins in
this direction, the things that drew its attention
originally, which is Beau and Nott in that corner.
Nott, you do get an attack of opportunity with a
melee weapon, if you have one, but you
have your crossbow out?
SAM: I probably have my crossbow out.
MATT: So yeah, you don’t do much of an attack
there.
SAM: I’ll hit it with my crossbow.
MATT: Roll an attack. Improvised weapon for a
melee.
SAM: Yeah. 18.
MATT: 18 just hits.
MARISHA: 18 is what hits, y’all!
SAM: Do I get a point of damage?
MATT: You get a point of damage on it.
SAM: Yeah! Eat it!
MATT: Your hand crossbow, as you slam into it, you
look back and it looks like some of the wood is
splintered somewhat. You’re like, "Oh." It’s not
enough to the point where it looks like it’s not
going to function, maybe, but it’s going to need
some repairs.
SAM: I need a new crossbow, is what I need.
MATT: Well, there you go. As it turns around, the
front of it, where the lens is, the lens retracts
in. The plates in front suddenly open, leaving
this open, black, vacuous space, like a mouth or a
gate, opens in front. You hear this very high,
whirring, winding sound. You see sparks inside,
and a blast of heated shrapnel shoots outward in a
30 foot spray.
SAM: It can do that?!
MATT: Against both of you, right there.
SAM: Cleff, you madman.
MATT: I need you both to make a dexterity saving
throw, please.
SAM: Oh, rough. 12.
MARISHA: That’s not too bad. 22.
MATT: Success, so you take half damage.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: That is 25 points of piercing damage to you
Nott.
SAM: Because I hit it with my thing, do I no
longer have a reaction?
MATT: Correct.
SAM: Oh, shit.
MATT: Now you know about the reactions.
ASHLEY: 25 points of damage?
MATT: Of piercing damage, and halved for you, so
you take 12.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: Its shrapnel blast is done. That’s the end
of its turn. That brings us to Beau. You’re up.
MARISHA: Okay. Being hit with hot shrapnel, I’m
going to do a cool pole vault over Nott.
MATT: Over this way?
MARISHA: I guess. Wait, where’s Yasha? Yasha’s
here?
MATT: Yasha’s prone on the ground.
MARISHA: I’ll get on the other side of where Yasha
will eventually be.
MATT: Oh, so around here?
MARISHA: Uh-huh. On this side of it.
MATT: You’re moving into melee?
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: Got it.
MARISHA: Then attack!
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Whack it with my stick. I’m going to try
and jam it up in between one of those gears.
TALIESIN: You also have the mouth you can throw
the tar up in there.
MARISHA: That’s terrible. That doesn’t hit, that’s
like, ten.
MATT: Ten misses. The first strike with your staff
just scrapes off of its armor, no impact.
MARISHA: I’m going to readjust and try and go for
it again. That’s the exact same roll. Those are
two twos in a row.
MATT: The second one, you strike again. This time,
one of the blades swings outward, and thankfully,
the blade doesn’t hit the staff to cut the wood,
however, it does, the backhand, impact it and
prevent the blow from actually striking its body.
MARISHA: Two twos.
MATT: That’s not fun.
MARISHA: I guess I will do an unarmed attack.
MATT: You go and punch the armored sphere.
MARISHA: So frustrated that I can’t get my staff
up there, I’m just going to go and try and whack
it with my fist.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: 17, which just misses.
MATT: It just misses. Well, not so much a miss.
You hit it, but you go (metallic clang), "Oh!" You
can feel that from the knuckles right to the funny
bone.
MARISHA: Do I have any more movement?
MATT: From there, you have ten feet.
MARISHA: Can I back up towards, or even get this--
I’m just going to stay where I am.
MATT: Okay. Finishing Beau’s turn, that brings us
to Nott and Molly--
MARISHA: Oh wait, hang on, as a bonus act-- no. I
used my bonus action. Fuck. Okay, keep going.
SAM: Is its lens out?
MATT: Its lens appears to be out currently, just
surveying the scenario, yes.
SAM: So go for the lens?
TALIESIN: Go for it.
SAM: Bonus action, I will use the Mage Hand to
deliver the tar right on that lens.
MATT: I’ll say, for the purposes of aiming on
this, with your intention, go ahead and make a d20
attack roll adding your perception bonus.
SAM: There is no bonus to that. Well that’s-- how
do you feel about that? Well, it fell so we’ll
never know what it was. 17!
MATT: 17! I’ll say, for the purposes of that,
because it’s not armor you’re trying to strike
through, it’s just trying to aim for a position,
that will be enough. The tar, with a toss,
(splashing) all across the lens. You see the
sticky, still warm, thick tar spray onto it, and
get inside the interior of its armor for the
moment. The lens starts (swift movements), and you
hear what previously was, now that it’s close to
you, you can hear there’s hundreds and hundreds of
small clicks and winding sounds on the inside.
There’s now a rapid (zipping movements) as the
lens is trying to find some sort of direction. It
is currently blinded.
(cheering)
SAM: Our plan worked perfectly. How far am I from
the thing?
MATT: Technically, you are ten feet from it.
SAM: Do you think I’m in melee range?
TALIESIN: Probably.
MATT: The blades have a bit of reach, so you are
technically in melee.
TALIESIN: That’s a ten-foot blade reach.
SAM: Can I use my action to disengage?
MATT: You can use your action to disengage, yeah.
Disengage generally is an action.
SAM: Okay. I will disengage and run.
MATT: Which direction?
SAM: Straight to the place I just came from.
MATT: All right. You can get there. You can go one
more, if you want to.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: All right, there you go. You can still keep
it in your visual range, but that’s 30 feet back.
Now you spin around with your crossbow, not
suffering any attack of opportunity. All right, Molly.
TALIESIN: Can I see anywhere where there seems to
be a crack in the armor and make a--
MATT: You may, yes. Well, you can try and
inspect.
TALIESIN: I want to see if there’s anything that
looks like a good target to start doing some
damage to.
MATT: At the moment, it hasn’t taken a lot of
damage, and it’s hard to see if any--
TALIESIN: Is there a plate open or anything at the
moment near me?
MATT: The only plate that’s open is the one that
has the lens visible, but it’s really close to the
body and right now there’s blades spinning in its
space.
TALIESIN: I’m going to try and get to the side
without the blade. I’m going to try and chop open
one of the plates on the back. I’m going to start
hacking away at it. Actually, even with the
blades, there’s an open place right now? Is there
a place for me to start poking the tender insides?
MATT: At the moment, not really. It’s still fresh
in battle, and its armor plates are pretty much
protecting all of it.
TALIESIN: I’m going to try and find one armor
plate and start going to town.
MATT: Where are you going to attack its
construction?
TALIESIN: I want to get to its left hind quarters.
I’m going to run over to the opposite side, flank
it with the lollipop.
MATT: Oh, with the lollipop? All righty. You’re
going to be right there, on top of the door?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MATT: All righty, take your attacks.
TALIESIN: First attack is a natural 20!
MATT: Nice! Make your damage on that and roll the
second attack. That’s--
TALIESIN: 2d6 with ice damage. That’s (counting)
17 points of damage.
MATT: 17 points of damage. Nice!
TALIESIN: Next attack with the same sword.
Actually, I’m so sorry, that’s the wrong sword.
That’s 18 points of damage because of the Summer’s
Dance.
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: Then the next one, Summer’s Dance again,
is not quite as good, 12. That does not hit.
MATT: 12 does not, but first strike carves through
and some of the armor bends inward. As you cut
through, plates bend inward, and have to try and
retract to protect, but they’re locked in place.
You’ve actually bent them to the point where they
cannot reform this armored mesh. It’s trying to
correct itself, but busted in place. The second
strike, as you come down, one of the blades
catches and parries it off to the side. No impact
on the second blow.
TALIESIN: Okay. Going for a third strike.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: 14.
MATT: 14 does not hit. This is a tough mother. You
go to strike a third time. You do hit, but it just
doesn’t cut through. The blade shakes a bit. You
pull back, cursing yourself.
TALIESIN: Is it worth seeing if it’s going to--
well, it’s blinded, so it’s got disadvantage if it
tries to even hit me with an attack, so I’m going
to try and back off and climb up that little hill.
MATT: For those questioning, even though it is
blinded, it lowers its attack, because some people
are like, "Attacking things with blindness have
advantage!". Because it is nothing but a spinning,
whirring of blades, and technically it has
multiple forms of sight, it is not granting
advantage on the attacks against it.
TALIESIN: I’m going to try and hop up that hill
really quickly.
MATT: All righty. You try and move this way?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: All right, you’re hopping up this edge.
TALIESIN: As high as I can get to get out of its
range.
MATT: Okay, so that will be probably over here,
best you can for this.
TALIESIN: Yeah. Right over there is good.
MATT: You manage to scoot yourself up to that side
and climb away. It does swing out towards you. It
does have disadvantage on the attack because of
the blindness. That will bring it to a 13 to hit.
TALIESIN: That does not hit.
MATT: You manage to duck out of the way.
TALIESIN: And now it doesn't have a reaction
anymore.
SAM: Ooh, nice.
MATT: That ends your turn there. That brings us to
Caleb and Jester.
LIAM: [no audio]
SAM and TALIESIN: We can't hear you.
SAM: Why can't we hear you?
MARISHA: Yeah, we can hear you now. Oh wait, do it
again.
LIAM: Can you hear me right now?
ALL: Yes!
LIAM: Yeah! Okay. I'll go, but I can't see. The
map is a pixelated mess of shit from my point of view.
After Mollymauk cleared the way, is the thing on its
own? Is it in a 40-foot cube of empty space, or
are any of my allies in it?
MATT: No, it is surrounded. There's Beau to one
part of it, it's about ten feet from Yasha, and
about 15 feet from Molly.
MARISHA: It's a pretty tight box we're in.
TALIESIN: We're in a tight box.
LIAM: Slow is out the window. I pull out my clay
cat's paw and mutter a few words, and I will cast
Maximilian's Earthen Grasp. A soil cat's paw comes
up out of the ground and swipes. It needs to make
a strength save. 16.
MATT: Strength save. That is a 15. What is your
DC?
LIAM: 16. It's held in place, and it takes 2d6
damage. Hold on. It takes five points of
bludgeoning damage.
MATT: Five points of damage, got it. It is held in
place.
LIAM: It has to use an action to break out.
MATT: That it does. That ends your turn, Caleb.
Are you going to stay back in the corner where you are?
LIAM: If I can squish even one square further away
from it, I would.
MATT: You are backed up into the current corner,
as far away as you can get. That ends Caleb's
turn. Jester's up. What are you guys doing with
Jester?
TALIESIN: First off, we're going to have the
Spiritual Weapon take a swipe right at where the
plates are already broken, and hit it again. Which
is a bonus action, and a plus seven to hit. Oh,
that's not it. It's around here somewhere. There
it is. That's a 15.
MATT: That was 15 to hit?
TALIESIN: Wait, wait. (counting) Yeah, 15.
MATT: That does not hit. The lollipop swings down,
and then bounces down off the armor. The Spiritual
Weapon is not able to penetrate its armored hide.
That's your bonus action. Jester still has an action.
TALIESIN: I don't think this is going to do
anything.
MARISHA: (singing) Playing with your friends' D&amp;D
characters!
TALIESIN: I was thinking of trying maybe a--
SAM: Simple Sacred Flame?
TALIESIN: We could do Sacred Flame, or if you were
nearer I'd say Cure Wounds. Or we could do a
Guiding Bolt.
ASHLEY: Hey, that's a classic.
TALIESIN: (like Jester) "We're going to do Guiding
Bolt." You roll this one.
SAM: (imitating Taliesin) We're going to do
Guiding Bolt.
ASHLEY: That's a 26.
MATT: 26 definitely hits! Roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: That's 4d6 radiant damage.
MATT: Yes, and the next attack on it has
advantage.
ASHLEY: Okay. Come on, Jester. Any pluses?
TALIESIN: No, just 4d6.
ASHLEY: 14.
MATT: 14 points of damage. Nice. As the released
Guiding Bolt slams into the side of it, the blast
of divine energy explodes. Some of the plates dent
inward and now you see this glittering energy
that's entwining its body, giving you a glimmer of
some of the weak points to help you hit where
it'll hurt the most. Does that finish Jester's
turn? She going to stay where she is, or is she
going to move?
TALIESIN: I feel like we should open up a little
bit. I think she's going to see if she can crawl
over to the door, so she can hide behind it in
case something bad happens.
MATT: Okay, so she tries to move into the
doorway.
SAM: That door actually opens and closes, Matt?
TALIESIN: In fact, she might be smart-- she has to
keep the Spiritual Weapon in visual range, right?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Okay. She's going to just use that as
some cover.
MATT: Sounds good. So that finishes Jester's turn.
Top of the round, Yasha.
ASHLEY: Okay. So I'm going to (stuttering) pick
myself up.
MATT: That's half your movement, so you still have
20 feet of movement.
ASHLEY: Can I flank? Get around so Beau and I
are-- yeah.
MATT: Right there. You are now flanking with Beau.
Your first attack has advantage anyway, because of
the Guiding Bolt.
ASHLEY: Right. That's right.
SAM: Up the butt. Does it have a butt, Matt?
MATT: You cannot discern any sort of rear end or
exhaust port.
SAM: Does it poop?
MATT: You'll find out, I'm sure.
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: 22 hits. Roll damage on that first strike.
TALIESIN: That's a lot.
SAM: Everyone poops.
MARISHA: We can't see the sphincter!
TALIESIN: Oh wait, no! Everybody poops unless
they're an android, because then they must be destroyed.
MARISHA: Oh yeah, sure. That's right.
TALIESIN: Poop, poop.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: 16 points of damage. Cutting through bits
and pieces of it. Nice. That's your first strike
on it. As you jam down, grinding off, some of the
metal plates pull away from it, and once again
lock, unable to push back into place. There's
small places where you're starting to buckle parts
of its exterior armor, so its AC actually does go
down by one.
SAM: Ooh!
ASHLEY: Oh, okay. So I get another attack?
MATT: That's your first strike. You get a second
attack.
TALIESIN: So we now know at least a 17 will hit.
ASHLEY: That does not have advantage, right?
MATT: You do, because you're currently flanking
with Beau.
MARISHA: (singing) Because we're flanking, bitch!
ASHLEY: That's a 25.
MATT: 25 does hit. Roll damage.
ASHLEY: Not an extra, because not Divine Fury?
MATT: Correct. Just 2d6 plus five.
ASHLEY: Okay. That's 11.
MATT: 11 points of damage. Nice! Yasha, busting it
out. All right, that finish your turn?
LIAM: Just a reminder that everyone is rolling at
advantage while the Cat's Paw holds it.
ALL: Ooh.
MATT: Oh, because it's restrained? Right!
TALIESIN: Blinded and restrained right now.
MATT: Good to know. That finishes Yasha's turn.
It's now Fjord's go.
MARISHA: (exaggerated Texan drawl) I do a cowboy
saunter up behind the-- I go under the lollipop
and I use the magical field of the lollipop to
make it like me walking through a glitter fog
machine. I walk up to him, thank you. I walk up,
and I'm going to attack with my falchion.
MATT: Go for it. Make two strikes with the
falchion. First attack with advantage.
MARISHA: I'm sorry, Travis.
SAM: That's exactly how he talks.
MARISHA: I'll take that 18, plus that seven.
MATT: All right, that hits. The first attack,
that's a d8 plus--
MARISHA: Plus Hex.
MATT: A d8, plus four, plus Hex.
MARISHA: And then I'm going do Booming Blade with
my action. Is that not how this works?
MATT: No.
MARISHA: Okay, no. I'm going to do damage.
MATT: Booming Blade is a cantrip that only gives
you one attack as part of the action.
MARISHA: Never mind, then I'm just going to hit it
real hard.
MATT: That's okay.
MARISHA: Six plus two plus five, so eight plus
five.
MATT: All right, that's 13 damage.
MARISHA: See my math? I can only do half. I'm so
tired.
MATT: It's been a long day. I know. Fjord comes up
holding the falchion, hand swings down, carving
through, the shadows of the Hex helping the blade
dig in that much more. You have a second attack.
MARISHA: Okay, it's still advantage, right?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Yeah, hyuck hyuck hyuck. I'll take that
16.
LIAM: Meanwhile, Travis is somewhere singing "Dear
Theodosia."
MARISHA: Yeah, somewhere he's getting a nosebleed
while this happens. Four plus four plus five, so 13?
MATT: 13 points of damage? That hits again. With
that, with Fjord carving into it twice with the
blade, each time the falchion is carving through
each section, more and more armored pieces are
pushing inward. It's not enough to lower its AC,
but it is taking more and more damage. Slowly
you're piercing its heavily protected exterior.
MARISHA: Do I have any more movement?
MATT: Fjord would have, yeah.
MARISHA: Like ten more?
MATT: Ten more feet.
MARISHA: He's going to back up to that gate a
little bit.
MATT: One or two steps?
MARISHA: Two, if he can.
MATT: All right. Still in melee.
MARISHA: He's still in melee? Okay.
MATT: It's a ten foot range. That ends your turn?
MARISHA: Yep. That's Fjord's turn.
MATT: All right. That brings us to the Gatekeeper
construct. The lens has retracted back into its
armor, and you hear this sound (whirring) the lens
comes out, and it has cleared the tar from its lens.
MARISHA: Cleff, you sick bastard!
ASHLEY: Damn it! So he did think of that! He put
that in his notes!
MARISHA: He did! Yeah, he said he didn't have a
failsafe. That lying old bastard.
ASHLEY: Lying sack of shit.
MATT: The lens retracts and pops out the back
side, immediately scanning the source of what's
currently clutching it, and its dirt-driven arcane
paw. The blade arms on the top retract in, and
instead these two heavy iron spears lock into
place, and both go firing outward towards Caleb.
SAM: Oh no! Not my sweet boy!
MATT: They have disadvantage, because it is
restrained. With disadvantage, it's going to be an
18 to hit for the first one.
LIAM: Shield.
MATT: All right.
LIAM: So it misses.
MATT: All righty. Second one, 16 and 18. 16 plus
eight; it's going to be 24.
LIAM: Oh, that will hit. Those will hit.
MATT: The first one, the shield (clang). It
ricochets off and floats off in the background
spinning. The second one, however, pierces through
the shield and hits you in the chest.
LIAM: That's not going to be good.
MATT: That's going to be 17 points of piercing
damage.
LIAM: Good, good, good.
MATT: And you are pinned to the wall. It actually
pierced through your chest and is now holding you
into the stone. Your movement is zero, and you are
considered restrained against the wall.
LIAM: I also have to make a concentration check.
MATT: You do. So go ahead and make a constitution
check. With the damage taken, it has to be at
least a ten or higher.
LIAM: Hold on. I rolled a three.
MATT: No, and with that, the paw is broken.
SAM: (cat yowl)
MARISHA: Shit.
LIAM: Well, it's still there. It's just not
holding it. Wait, no, it's gone.
MATT: No, it's gone. You’ve lost concentration on
the spell. And it did recharge its shrapnel blast.
MARISHA: I was really wanting advantage on all my
attacks. Oh, but I have Yasha flanking. Okay.
MATT: That being the case, that’s going to finish
its turn. It's going to stay put. Because the
blades now grind out again and begin whirring and
spinning around its orb-like body. That brings us
to Beau. Beau, at the top of your turn, because
you are within five feet of it, you automatically
take whirling blade damage by being in proximity.
LIAM: Matt, was that 17 points of damage?
MATT: That was, yes.
ASHLEY: I'm also in proximity.
MATT: Yes. So at the top of your turn, you'll take
it as well. That's six points of slashing damage
to you, Beau. Now take your turn.
MARISHA: Six. Apply changes. (singing) D&amp;D Beyond!
SAM: My mustache is falling off, so I better hold
it on with another mustache.
TALIESIN: No, stop.
MATT: Fuck you, Sam!
MARISHA: Okay. I'm having internet problems. View.
Okay, I get advantage on this attack, right?
MATT: You do, because you're flanking.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to try and once again get
up in those plates.
SAM: Get up under them plates!
MARISHA: That one's cocked underneath. Okay!
MATT: A four and a six.
MARISHA: No, it was cocked underneath. It was
tilted.
MATT: Okay. That dice is weird for that because
then you rolled the d20 twice.
MARISHA: Then I won't use it.
MATT: All right. So roll the second one.
MARISHA: Okay, 17 plus seven.
MATT: For the second strike?
MARISHA: I rolled both at the same-- No, first to
strike.
MATT: The first roll you had was a four on the
top, so roll for your second die.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Just keeping it kosher.
MARISHA: Okay. It's still an 18.
MATT: 18 hits, yeah. Go ahead and make your strike
with your staff.
MARISHA: Okay. Four.
MATT: Four points of damage?
MARISHA: Plus another four.
MATT: So that's eight. As your staff strikes
across it, the wood of it, while damaging, doesn't
seem to be having as strong an impact as you’d
hope against its armored form.
MARISHA: Because it's not magical?
MATT: It seems to be resistant to something that
is not magical.
SAM: Oh no.
MARISHA: Even though I still hit, can I try to
stun it with a Stunning Strike?
MATT: Sure. Let's go ahead and-- I'm pretty
sure--
MARISHA: I haven't hit anything in so long and I
just want to stun something. I've had such bad
luck the past two fights.
MATT: I'm so sorry.
MARISHA: I haven't been such a good monk.
LIAM: Yeah. (coughing) That's rough, buddy.
SAM: So far we've learned today that Fjord sounds
like this: (goofy chuckling)
MATT: By the rules as written, because it mentions
the ki of the inside of the body-- there is no ki,
but there is a magical core. I'll say that when
you strike the body intending to stun it, while
you're not affecting the ki of a soul, the ki that
you're expending might interfere with its central
energy core. So it has to make a constitution
saving throw.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: That's going to be a 17. What's the DC?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: It's a 12 plus five, I'm sorry.
MARISHA: Yeah, it saves.
MATT: You have another attack.
MARISHA: I'm going to do that. Still have
advantage, right?
MATT: You do.
MARISHA: Man, it will be really awesome when that
monk ability, that's core of my class, actually
works. 17 plus seven.
MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for
that. Second strike with your staff.
MARISHA: Six.
MATT: All right, six.
MARISHA: Plus another four, so ten total. Sorry.
MATT: It takes five points of damage as the second
strike is still somewhat deflected by the
armor of its body.
MARISHA: Since I have two hits, can I do Extract
Aspects? Spend a ki point?
MATT: You can. You spend a ki point. Since we've
changed or errata-ed it, it does not make a saving
throw. You just get to learn--
MARISHA: I get to learn two things now?
MATT: At level six you get to learn two things.
MARISHA: Can I learn its lowest saving throw
ability?
MATT: The lowest saving throw ability it has would
be charisma.
(laughter)
SAM: Useless!
MATT: Not against some spells.
MARISHA: Hey Molly, you want to mock this asshole
to death?
TALIESIN: I think it would still go poorly, but
let's see if it comes to it.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to take my last attack.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
MARISHA: Still at advantage, right?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Okay, I hit with a 15 plus seven, so a
22.
MATT: That hits.
MARISHA: I have a d6 now. Five damage.
MATT: Five damage reduced to two. This time, you
hit with your fists. Again, it scrapes through the
armor, and you're bleeding at the knuckles from
the impact. It's hard to break through its shell.
MARISHA: I'm feeling so useful, you guys.
MATT: This is a rough fight for a monk at level
five, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: I got a crazy idea.
MATT: That finish your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to stay exactly where I
am.
MATT: Okay, that finishes Beau's turn. Nott and
Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: You first, please.
SAM: I'm going to scoot around and fire a crossbow
at it.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: That's a 15 plus seven to hit.
MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
SAM: Is it within melee and stuff?
MATT: It is.
SAM: Well, that wasn't good at all!
TALIESIN: Hey, Beau.
SAM: That's eight.
MATT: Eight points of damage, reduce that in half
because it's a non-magical source. That's four
points of piercing to it.
SAM: I'll use my Fury Of The Small. That's another
five points.
MARISHA: Are you using my friend's success to try
and make me feel better?
TALIESIN: No, he actually only did four points of
damage. Sam only did four.
MARISHA: Oh, you're trying to use my friend's
failure to make me feel better.
MATT: It gets stuck in some of the gears. You see
some sparks from the inside, but it doesn't fully
pierce its shell.
SAM: Terrible. I can't really do anything. You
know what, I'll take out my last burning bolt,
that should be magical, load it up and fire that.
MATT: Go for it. That is a magical bolt.
SAM: But that doesn't hit. I just wasted it. It's
14.
MATT: The bolt doesn't impact. It just glides off
the armor. It lands somewhere in the distance. You
don't know if it's retrievable or not yet.
SAM: Damn it!
MARISHA: It's impossible to take you seriously.
SAM: What are you talking about?
TALIESIN: I can't even-- I'm rooting for Nott,
then I look at you and I feel weird.
MATT: Molly, you're up.
SAM: I'm going to duck back a little bit.
TALIESIN: I'm going to run in and try to do a
little bit more damage in here. I'm coming in and
taking three more shots. I caught it. It's all
good. That one misses.
MATT: All right, you move in. Go for it.
TALIESIN: That one hits. That's a 19.
MATT: First strike it dodges; it moves out of the
way. The second strike actually makes an impact,
so roll for that.
TALIESIN: That's okay. (counting) That's 12 points
of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage, all righty. Carves
through with the second strike.
TALIESIN: For a third, slightly less exciting
attack. Natural 20!
MATT: This is your off-hand, so it's not a magical
weapon.
TALIESIN: But its magicked up.
MATT: Correct, so the extra rite damage is
magical, but the actual blade will be halved.
TALIESIN: Okay, that's fine.
MATT: So roll the d6 for your blade.
TALIESIN: That's two to three, so that's five.
MATT: Five reduced to two. So two damage plus
this, doubled. Well no, sorry, the two is doubled
because it was a crit. So it would have been four
plus three, which is seven.
TALIESIN: So it was a five.
MATT: Sure, it's five damage.
TALIESIN: And then six because this is doubled.
MATT: So 11 points of damage. Now the armor is
reduced to 16 as you're carving away at its
armored shell. It's starting to look pretty hurt.
You see it shifting rapidly trying to figure out
its situation and tactically maneuver best it
can.
TALIESIN: I'm going to see if I can hop back up
out of-- am I ever getting out of melee, or am I
not getting out of melee?
MATT: If you back all the way up to here, you can.
Or all the way up to the top.
TALIESIN: It will still get an attack of opportunity
on me, though. Without disadvantage now.
MATT: At the moment, no.
TALIESIN: You know, I'm going to stick around for
now.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to keep a flanking point. I’m
going to move a little bit, so that we’re spread
out around it. So it has to make some decisions.
SAM: Can he use the rest of his movement to work
on his Jester accent?
MATT: Sure.
TALIESIN: That's going to be a lot of movement.
MATT: Caleb and Jester, you're up next. Caleb,
you're currently pinned to the wall. You're muted
also, I can't hear you.
LIAM: What comes after Jester and I in the
initiative order?
MATT: Yasha does.
LIAM: Yasha does, and then the thing?
MATT: Yes, Yasha, Fjord, and then the thing.
MARISHA: And Jester is with you.
LIAM: Yeah, I know. I'm having trouble thinking
straight because there is a blade through my gut
and my rib cage. So I grasp the cat's paw again, I
don't try to pull myself loose, and I cast
Maximilian's Earthen Paw again. Strength save.
MATT: As the paw reaches out once more to grab
it-- that is a 19. 14 plus five. Sorry, man.
You're still maintaining concentration, but it did
not seem to grasp it at this moment. All right,
that ends Caleb's turn. Jester's up.
MARISHA: No, don't do that! Go back. Sorry, keep
going.
TALIESIN: Should I try something offensive or
healing-based, do you think? How are you doing, Caleb?
LIAM: Bad.
TALIESIN: Okay, so we're going to do this. We're
going to run out and cast Healing Word on Caleb.
MATT: Okay, so step back through the door a little
bit there. What level?
TALIESIN: Level one.
MATT: So a d4 plus four to Caleb.
TALIESIN: Yes, 1d4 plus four. So that's seven
points.
MATT: Caleb, you heal seven points. That's a bonus
action from Jester. What's next? You can only use
a cantrip since you've cast a bonus action spell.
ASHLEY: So the Spiritual Weapon?
MATT: Spiritual Weapon is a bonus action spell.
You've already used the Healing Word, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: But I can use my action for the bonus
action.
MATT: It doesn't work that way.
TALIESIN: You can't up a bonus action to an
action?
MATT: No.
TALIESIN: Man! So I can't cast anything higher
than level one either, can I?
MATT: Or a cantrip.
TALIESIN: I can only cast cantrip at this point. I
would have done that in the reverse order if I had
been thinking about things. Well, what do I got? I
got a-- oh!
MATT: But Caleb's healed a little bit.
TALIESIN: Caleb's healed and that's good. Do we
want to try?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I say give it a go.
TALIESIN: Let's try Toll the Dead.
MATT: Constitution saving throw?
TALIESIN: It's a wisdom saving throw.
MATT: Wisdom to Toll the Dead?
TALIESIN: You point at one creature you can see
within range, and the sound of a-- you succeed at
a wisdom saving throw or take 1d8 of necrotic.
MATT: It is wisdom, you are right. So that would
put it at a 14. Because it has no wisdom modifier.
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: 15, so it takes the damage! Go ahead and
roll.
TALIESIN: If the target is missing any of its hit
points, it instead takes 1d12 necrotic damage.
MATT: You're level five, so it technically--
SAM: (Jester voice) Technically!
MATT: It's a 5th-level character, so it's--
MATT and TALIESIN: 2d12.
TALIESIN: All right. That's 17 points of necrotic
damage.
MATT: Not bad for a cantrip!
TALIESIN: Boom!
MATT: "It's not too bad." All right, that's going
to finish Jester's turn. Does she want to move?
TALIESIN: I think she's going to back up again.
MATT: Back into the door? You got it. Jester is
just on the side there. All right, finishes
Jester's go, Yasha you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay, I am going to attack with my--
MATT: At the top of your turn, you take blade
damage because you're in proximity to it. That's
ten. You take ten points of piercing damage. So,
reduced to five.
TALIESIN: You're a beast. You're great.
ASHLEY: All right, so, question? I would like to
try to use the Dispel Magic portion of my
Magician's Judge.
SAM: Now?
ASHLEY: I don't know; is that bad?
SAM: I don't know, can you get in there? Is the
guts exposed?
TALIESIN: Is there enough gut to hit?
MATT: There are a couple of pockets where you can
see inside of it, but you don't see the power
source. It's risky.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to wait.
MATT: So you're just taking a strike with it? You
have advantage because you're flanked with Beau.
MARISHA: I think that's the best thing I've done
this whole fight, is flanking.
MATT: Some fights aren't great for every class,
I'm sorry.
ASHLEY: 19.
MATT: 19 hits! Roll damage.
TALIESIN: 16 to hit, so that's not bad.
MATT: Yep, 16 AC.
ASHLEY: Okay. 17 points.
MATT: 17 points! Carving past with the blade. You
have a second strike, if you'd like.
ASHLEY: I would like-- Does that also have
advantage, or no?
MATT: Yeah it is, because you're flanking.
ASHLEY: Okay, ooh! 22.
MATT: Yeah, that hits. Roll damage again.
ASHLEY: 16.
MATT: 33 points of damage in one round. Yasha
doesn't mess around. That finishes your turn?
ASHLEY: Yes.
MATT: Fjord's up.
MARISHA: Okay, Fjord is going to walk up. "I'm a
warlock." First, he's going to do-- I don't think
this is a concentration thing, it's a bonus
action. He's going to do Hexblade's Curse.
MATT: Correct, you can do that.
SAM: It's pronounced--
SAM, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: (exaggerated Texas
drawl) Hexblade's Curse.
TALIESIN: So much fun to make fun of him when he's
not here. I think, at some point, you may need
another mustache.
MARISHA: I gain a bonus to damage rolls that
equals my proficiency modifier.
MATT: So an additional three damage per strike.
MARISHA: An additional three damage! I should have
done this forever ago.
MATT: Yeah, but now you know.
MARISHA: I'm not a warlock! First attack, still
with advantage, right?
MATT: No! You're not flanking with anybody.
MARISHA: Oh, he's not. It's just Yasha and I.
MATT: So first attack with the falchion.
MARISHA: Plus seven.
MATT: That's two attacks there.
MARISHA: Oh wait, sorry. But I'll take it. Those
first two attacks, 17 and 14.
MATT: Yeah, both will hit, so roll damage on each.
So a d8 plus--
MARISHA: d8 plus six.
MATT: d8 plus seven on each attack, plus a d6 on
each. So roll that.
MARISHA: Six plus seven, so 13 on the first one.
Same, 13 on the second one.
MATT: Nice! Starting to look pretty rough now, as
parts of it are breaking down a bit. It's shaking
and you see little sparks on the inside as gears
are starting to connect where they’re not supposed
to and grind against each other. That finish
Fjord's turn?
MARISHA: Yeah, can he back up again?
MATT: Five feet or ten?
MARISHA: Ten?
MATT: One more and it’ll take an attack of
opportunity. Up to you.
MARISHA: If he does an attack of opportunity, if I
move Fjord back, than we get a Sentinel strike, right?
MATT: Technically, if he takes it.
MARISHA: Yeah, let's do it! Sorry, Fjord. He
hasn't taken any damage, step back. He still has
Armor of Agathys, too.
TALIESIN: Step all the way back. Might as well,
because you can always run back there.
MARISHA: I think that's as far as he can go,
movement speed-wise.
MATT: No, he can move farther than that.
MARISHA: Sure.
MATT: Okay, it's not going to take an attack of
opportunity. It's currently focused on everything
else around it.
MARISHA: What?! Okay.
MATT: That finishes Fjord's turn?
MARISHA: Yes, it does.
MATT: This entity is going to attempt to shift
back this way. Which means Beau and Molly both get
attacks of opportunity against it.
ASHLEY: I get one?
MATT: You do not, because it's still in melee with
you.
TALIESIN: Do you get to try and make it not move?
MARISHA: I do. Do I still get advantage because
flank?
MATT: No, because it's moved out of that range.
MARISHA: Okay. Yeah, that's a 17 plus seven, so
24.
MATT: 24 hits, so roll damage. It does not move.
MARISHA: That's an eight on an eight. Plus four,
so 12 damage.
MATT: 12 reduced to six, got it.
MARISHA: And he does not move.
MATT: Nope, he gets stuck there. The bane of all
GMs everywhere.
TALIESIN: I don't still get to take my attack of
opportunity, even though that happened?
MATT: No, he did not technically move out of--
it's sticky. It's one of those weird things where
he doesn't technically move beyond the range, but
he tries to.
TALIESIN: He tried to and I try to make a jab.
MATT: I'll let you have it, sure.
TALIESIN: I'll take no advantage.
MATT: You have no advantage.
TALIESIN: I thought I might be flanked.
MATT: Currently, no. You would need something
right there in that corner to flank.
TALIESIN: That's a (counting) 24 to hit.
MATT: That hits. Roll damage.
TALIESIN: That's (counting) nine points of damage.
Yeah, nine.
MATT: It angrily is going to open to do its
shrapnel blast.
SAM: Yeah. Where? Oh no, Caleb, you're in that
cone.
MARISHA: Ah, Caleb!
SAM: Oh no, he's dead already!
MARISHA: Oh god! How long has he been like that?
MATT: It was that powerful! I need Molly, Beau,
Fjord, and Caleb, and technically Jester, as
well.
ASHLEY: Isn't she behind the door?
MATT: She didn't close the door there. She stepped
into the space to maintain eye contact.
SAM: (singing) Open the door on your mystery date.
Caleb, you have to make a dex save.
TALIESIN: Dex save?
MATT: Dex save, please.
LIAM: 20.
MATT: That's a success.
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: That is a failure.
SAM: How? You're pinned to a wall!
TALIESIN: Dex save? 22 for me.
MATT: Success. Oh, you're not there. Nott?
LIAM: I spun myself like a pinwheel.
MATT: Fjord and Jester, if you could.
SAM: Marisha, do one for Fjord.
MARISHA: Don't fuck Fjord, Gil! Oh, good. 17 for
Fjord.
TALIESIN: Ten for Jester.
MATT: Okay, so everyone saves except for Fjord.
Sorry, Jester. 27 points of piercing damage,
halved to be 13 points of piercing damage to
everybody.
MARISHA: Do I save?
MATT: You rolled a--?
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: No, you do not, so you take the full 27
points of piercing damage.
TALIESIN: Okay, so 14 points of piercing damage.
MARISHA: I had 27 hit points left.
MATT: No shit?
ASHLEY: You’re unconscious?
MARISHA: Beau’s unconscious again.
SAM: How about you, Cay? Cay-Cay?
LIAM: Low.
SAM: Low, okay.
MATT: And still pinned. Jester took a full 27.
SAM: How's she?
ASHLEY: Jester took a full 27?
MATT: She rolled low for her dexterity check. 27
points of damage.
TALIESIN: Is that the whole, or did you not do the
whole thing? I'm up. I'm fine.
MATT: That's its action. It is locked in place and
it can't move. Its speed is zero, frustratingly.
Caleb, I need you to make another concentration
check, please, from the damage you took.
LIAM: On what? Nothing's up.
MATT: I thought your other cat hand?
LIAM: That failed last time, didn't it?
MATT: It failed, but can you still try it for
every turn after, or is it a one-time cast thing?
LIAM: It can use a strength save to break out of
it and it exists, but if I fail my concentration
check, it goes, right?
MATT: But you've recast it.
LIAM: The second time it succeeded immediately.
MATT: Right, but when you create it in space, it
stays there.
LIAM: It stays there?
MATT: Yeah, and then as an action you can cause it
to try and do things--
LIAM: Great! Then that means it's staying there.
MATT: Make a concentration check to see if you
maintain the spell.
LIAM: Yes, sir.
MATT: Higher than a ten.
LIAM: 12.
MATT: All right, you succeed. You maintain
concentration. That finishes your turn. Beau,
you're up first.
SAM: Do that thing you do, Beau.
MARISHA: Roll a death saving throw? That is the
thing I do.
MATT: You don't have to roll. You take damage from
proximity to it, so you automatically fail a death
saving throw from the blades carving into your
now-unconscious body nearby.
MARISHA: Do I roll again? Can I take the roll I
just used?
MATT: Yeah, whatever you rolled on your death
saving throw.
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: Yeah, so that's a failure and a success.
That brings us to Nott and Molly.
TALIESIN: You want to go first?
SAM: Sure?
TALIESIN: Got any thoughts?
SAM: I mean, I don't have much. I'll walk up
there, poke around the corner, shoot a crossbow
bolt, do my thing. That's a big hit. 25.
MATT: That'll do. Roll damage with sneak attack.
MARISHA: Should have brought more tar.
SAM: Ten, halved.
MATT: Five points of piercing damage on the first
strike. Do you want to bonus action attack as well?
SAM: I guess? These attacks are so weak. I don't
know what else to do. I don't have anything else
to do. Yeah, I guess I'll shoot another one. Why
not? That hits, 23.
MATT: 23? Go ahead. That's 1d6 plus--
SAM: That's another six points, halved.
MATT: Halved to three, all righty. Sparks are
flying. It's starting to shake. Molly, top of your
turn, the swirling blades spin around and you take
eight points of slashing damage. It's your turn.
TALIESIN: (counting) Eight points of slashing
damage. Oof, that's rough. I'm going to take two
swipes at-- I'm going to try and move. I'm going
to try and move somewhere where I'm flanking. Is
there any flanking available at the moment?
MATT: At the moment, for you, if you move over
Beau's body. It's a tough call. I mean, I'll let
you do it, if you want to. You'll have to be
standing over her unconscious body.
TALIESIN: I was about to say, is it in any way
that going to give her a little cover, at the very
least?
MATT: Probably not.
TALIESIN: I'll move in and then move around--
well, no, goddamn it.
MATT: It's up to you.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a couple shots and see
how this goes.
MATT: Go for it. Take those shots, Molly.
TALIESIN: Because I can use some hits that are all
right.
SAM: Take those shots, Mollymauk.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's what we're doing. First
hit.
LIAM: Don't throw away your shot.
TALIESIN: I'm not throwing away my shot. That's a
22 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TALIESIN: Let's get that first thing. That's 12
points of damage?
MATT: 12 points of damage, all righty. Next
strike?
TALIESIN: Next strike. That definitely hit. That's
24.
MATT: Yep, roll damage on this one.
TALIESIN: (counting) That's ten points of damage.
MATT: Ten points of damage. How do you want to do
this? The blades are spinning, grinding around.
TALIESIN: I've got that one really soft blade and
I'm rolling it, and I want to see that one little
opening and I want it to bend. The sword bends and
does that Chinese martial art thing where it goes
and pops all the way into the center of it, and I
go wrist deep into the thing.
MATT: The edges of the armor scrape against your
flesh, pushing and cutting past skin, causing
blood to drip down your arm, but this is a natural
state for you. As the arm pushes into the center,
there's a flash of blue light, and the interior of
its armored shell (electricity crackling). It's
like a glow on the inside of a cracked, dark orb,
as all the individual sections where the plate
armors meet suddenly glow with a bright, vibrant
blue-white light, and then go dark, and the whole
metal object hits the ground. All the legs go
limp, and it rolls a little bit to one side, now
inert and no longer functioning as a construct.
LIAM: That was a Chow Yun-Fat moment.
TALIESIN: I got a new die, baby. Does it look
familiar, motherfucker?
SAM: Is it the Snitch?
TALIESIN: It's the nega-Snitch.
MATT: The nega-Snitch.
SAM: Where did you get that?
TALIESIN: I found the place where the Snitch came
from. I had the woman make me one out of iron.
MATT: I love it.
TALIESIN: Boom, motherfucker.
MATT: We'll see how it fares.
TALIESIN: It's been middly, but it's done okay
today.
SAM: Ecks versus Sever.
TALIESIN: Gil has been a help today.
MATT: All righty. You all take a moment. Beau is
bleeding out.
TALIESIN: Oh, no, we're immediately going to
help.
MATT: Jester runs up.
ASHLEY: Jester runs up and casts Cure Wounds.
SAM: Does she have a Cure Wounds?
TALIESIN: Yeah, we got 1st-level Lay on Hands to
get her up.
ASHLEY: At 1st-level, because I feel like that's
what she would do.
MARISHA: You really get tired of this dying thing.
I guess unconscious thing.
TALIESIN: You did so well. No, really. You did
some good stuff in there. You kept it sitting.
LIAM: Yasha.
ASHLEY: Yeah?
LIAM: Could you please come cast Pull This
Lamppost Out of My Stomach?
ASHLEY: Oh, yes, yes. I go over and I-- here.
MATT: Yasha puts her foot up on the wall, and with
one big yank, pulls it out of your torso, Caleb.
It was about two inches from the side of your body
and thrust through your abdomen. You begin to
bleed, but Jester comes over and helps close up
that wound before you bleed out too much further.
SAM: I'm going to run back and see what was back
over there.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I want to take a look in the other
room too, and give them a proper look.
MATT: Glancing into the chamber, that is another
closed gate that is bent inward from the repeated
slamming of this centurion trying to make its way
in. Looking past the inside, you see four
decomposed bodies.
SAM: Can I open the thing?
MATT: Make an attempt to do so.
TALIESIN: Liam, you get ten hit points, and you
get 12.
MARISHA: Dope.
LIAM: Who gets what now?
TALIESIN: You get ten.
MARISHA: I get 12.
SAM: 13.
LIAM: From Jester?
TALIESIN: From Jester.
MATT: These prison locks are a pain in the butt.
You haven't encountered something quite so heavily
fortified as these cells.
SAM: Caleb, I need you to come open this door.
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk over to the door and
start beating it with a sword.
MATT: Okay, make a strength check.
TALIESIN: You can't dex cut this thing? You can't
pop it in?
MATT: No, you have to force it.
SAM: Yasha, I need you to come kick in this door.
ASHLEY: If this big thing couldn't kick it in, how
could I?
LIAM: I'm coming.
SAM: You're bigger.
TALIESIN: Eight.
MATT: It is not budging.
SAM: You're bigger in spirit and heart.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'll come and try to open the door.
MATT: You go over, see where Molly has failed, and
you go and try to fill that void. Make a strength check.
SAM: I believe in you. Oh, wait!
ASHLEY: What?
TALIESIN: No, go ahead.
ASHLEY: It's not going to budge.
SAM: I'm going to use this, Matt. I'm going to try
to bend fate and try to repick the lock.
MATT: Okay. It's a little late, but I'll allow it,
sure.
SAM: I know.
MATT: Why not? Go for it.
SAM: It's a lot.
(laughter)
SAM: It's 26.
MATT: 26, okay. As Yasha comes forward and slams
her foot into it, it jostles the lock just enough
for you to slip past the tumblers, and with a
(creaks) it opens a few inches on the inside. The
bottom of it is scraping against the stonework,
the way it's been bashed and bent has actually
forced it out of the frame of the door, and it's
going to take a bit more force to push it open
enough to move inside, but you manage to do so.
TALIESIN: The three of us will get that door
open.
LIAM: Caleb stops mid-somatic gesture and says,
"Ah, fuck this," and goes back to the first door
and has a short rest.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah, Beau is going to deliriously--
still really messed up, like a drunk person doing
a pointless task-- is going to try and scoop up
some ball bearings that she threw, and then after
maybe she picks up like ten--
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: Eins, zwei, drei, vier.
MARISHA: 12?
MATT: How many ball bearings did you throw out?
MARISHA: I tossed my baggie--
MATT: Your entire bag?
MARISHA: My pouch. And did one of these things. So
I'm going to get my pouch back, and then--
MATT: Okay. You get your pouch back and you manage
to scoop up-- you have, we'll say, 814 ball bearings.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: (laughs) Most of which because it's such a
ridiculous item.
MARISHA: Then after I, deliriously tired of
scooping up ball bearings, I'm going to stumble
back and collapse next to Caleb and also take a
short rest.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLEY: May I go over and see the room where this
thing was staying in, on the other side?
MATT: Sure, so you make your way to the opposite
end.
SAM: Anything near the bodies?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: This I'm good at. One.
(laughter)
MATT: You find-- at first you think it's dried
compost, but you eventually realize, no, it's just
very old human excrement.
MARISHA: Ooh.
TALIESIN: At some point we'll cast Detect Magic--
MATT: You found prison poop.
SAM: Old prison poop.
MATT: Yes. Yasha, you head off to the other side
where the gate is open, and as you go inside, you
can see the interior of this chamber is as scraped
up as the rest of them from where this sentry was
attempting to scan and break out. On the inside--
make an investigation check? First time for you?
ASHLEY: I think it is. 11.
MATT: 11, okay. Looking around on the inside, you
take a glance-- and there are these little pieces
of things everywhere, some hard, some soft, and
you start pulling it up, and you notice that a lot
of these are tiny torn slivers of blanket or sheet
or pillow, and the other hard pieces are tiny
shards of bone. Whatever prisoners who were in
here who could not keep this at bay, their remains
have been, time and time again, ground, battered,
and destroyed by this creature as it ran through.
It has torn apart their bedding and their bodies,
but beyond that, nothing else of interest.
LIAM: Back at the front gate, leaning against
Beauregard: Eh, what is that? Is that your blood--
or is that mine?
MARISHA: (slurring) I don't know, it might be
yours. It's hard to tell.
LIAM: (snoring)
MATT: Fjord pats you on the shoulder next to you
and goes, "Hey, I just wanted to let you know, I
"appreciate what you did, taking the brunt of it,
because it didn't even hurt me."
MARISHA: (slurring) That's very true. I'm going to
remember that next time.
MATT: "And that's because of you."
MARISHA: (slurring) You're the best, Fjord.
MATT: "I know." All righty, so what else are you
guys doing?
SAM: Should we retrieve the magic core or anything
as proof of what we did here?
TALIESIN: I mean, the fact that we're going to
leave the door open and it's not coming up, but
yeah, we'll go get the core and I figure we're
going to do a thorough investigation of the whole
thing once Caleb can do a Detect Magic.
MATT: Okay. While Caleb's taking a moment to
finish his short rest, you begin to peer inside
and pull back some of the loosened armor plates.
Now that the machine is open, there's not tension
holding it together, and you see that each of
these armored plates, on the inside, are attached
to its own arm-like pole. Once it collapsed, all
the armor plates went limp and fell open. It's a
tension-held bit of armor, that it could expand
and push out different areas to leave openings and
then retract again. It's a pretty ingenious
design, and you can see why Tinkertop is a
talented man, though flawed sometimes in his
designs. This is pretty revolutionary.
TALIESIN: It's like a weaponized version of one of
those balls that you throw up in the air and it
turns inside out.
MATT: Similar to that, I guess you could say.
Looking inside, it's hundreds of these little
poles, and gears, and little servos, and a lot of
them are ground, bent, and damaged from the impact
that you left inside. There in the center, you see
a cracked open, and partially destroyed, bluish
crystal sphere. That was where your final blow
impacted to destroy it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to keep cutting off the arms
so we can get to it.
MATT: It's yanking and bending pieces, pulling
them out and (pinging). On the inside, with the
damage you've done, it's not too hard to pry a few
off, but you manage to get to it, and there is the
cracked and shattered crystal core.
ASHLEY: Couple questions. I really like some of
the armor pieces that he has on his shoulders,
like with the skulls and things. Is that just part
of his--
MATT: That's just part of the miniature. That was
my representation for it. I did not have a mini of
a spherical ball made of armor. I'm sorry, that's
the best I could do for size and intimidation.
I've been very busy, didn't have time to make an
entire mini of a tiny spherical metal ball covered
in blades.
TALIESIN: What could you have possibly have been
doing, Matt? Sorry!
MATT: Sorry, no. It's fine.
MARISHA: Your mustache is traveling.
SAM: Wherever it stays. Well, let's take this
stuff back up to the warden?
TALIESIN: We've had a short rest, and we'll do a
quick search. Can you do a Detect Magic spell, Caleb?
LIAM: Yeah, I have a little bit left in me,
Mollymauk. Will you help me up, please?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah come on, that's all right.
MARISHA: No, he's my pillow! Fuck you, Molly.
TALIESIN: Go fuck yourself, Beau. Come on.
LIAM: (grunting) Okay. Point me at the thing.
MATT: You do a scan of Detect Magic through the
room over the next 15 minutes or so. You do a
thorough pass around. Nothing magical catches your
attention. Most of the interior here is--
Actually, no, that's not true. Very faint magical
auras from two ember light torches that are on the
wall. That faint red light that you've seen is
essentially a very low light Everburning torch.
LIAM: I turn to Mollymauk and say: Yeah, the only
thing magical here is you, friend. Pat pat on the
cheek. I wander back over to Beauregard, and I go
to sleep again.
TALIESIN: All right, come on, we're going to get
you guys out of here. (strained) We're going to go.
MARISHA: (groaning) Okay.
MATT: You pick yourselves up, and make your way
back to the heavy metal door. On this side, you
can see the heavy scraping across it as this ball
has also been pushing repeatedly into this one
exit point. As you approach, it is still closed
and presumably locked.
SAM: (knocking) We're done. Let us out. Guards!
MATT: You hear some shifting behind it, and
eventually hear the familiar grinding of chains
against metal. (creaking) It opens slightly and
the guards peer out. "You alive?"
TALIESIN: I hold up the glowing crystal. You
should see the other one. (laughs)
MATT: "Go check it out." A few of the gnomish
guards push past and head down. Another one of the
gnomish guards goes, "Well, fucking A. Is it
done?" The other gnomes rush past him and say,
"Sure enough. They killed the thing!" He's like,
"Oh, all right. I'll lead you back to our boss.
"Come on, follow me."
MARISHA: Beauregard goes: I just-- it took a lot
out of us. I pass out in Yasha's arms.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MARISHA: Yasha?
TALIESIN: Do I buy this?
MARISHA: You have to carry me.
ASHLEY: I got you.
MATT: Fireman carries you.
TALIESIN: I want to have an insight versus
deception check on you.
MATT: Make an insight check.
TALIESIN: All right. I ain’t going to mess with
you, I just want to know. Nope, that's an eight.
Unless you roll really poorly.
ASHLEY: As I'm holding her--
MARISHA: I rolled way better.
ASHLEY: --I will cast Healing
Hands.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll for that.
ASHLEY: Regain number of hit points equal to
your level. So you gain an extra five hit points.
MARISHA: You make me feel so warm inside.
TALIESIN: Come on, Nott.
MARISHA: How many hit points?
MATT: Five.
ASHLEY: A whole five.
SAM: On our way out, do I see my bolt anywhere?
MATT: Make an investigation check as you glance
around the space.
SAM: 12.
MATT: Because it's a small space, you do manage to
recover it, so you get one bolt back. It did not trigger.
SAM: It only triggers if it hits?
MATT: If it hits an intended target, possibly, or
something hard enough. You rolled low enough where
it didn't seem to truly impact.
LIAM: Make a Fu-Manchu check.
MATT: You guys slowly make your way, guided back
by the various guards of the Gearhold Prison, to
the office of the Wardenhelm, where both Rissa and
her father are waiting. As they walk in, you
glance over and can see Cleff. He’s like, "So
how'd it go? Any luck with the thing? Oh, you
"broke it!"
TALIESIN: We did. We may need that later, sadly.
MATT: "I'm simultaneously impressed and kind of
sad, but impressed mostly."
TALIESIN: It did work us over quite well.
SAM: It was an incredible device.
ASHLEY: It really was.
SAM: You could have told us the eye had a
protective windshield wiper device.
MATT: "It's more for when it's raining. I didn't
think it would be for tar, but good to know." He
takes out the note in his little pad.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take the crystal back. I'm
so sorry, we may need this.
MATT: At this point, you see turning in the office
vicinity, Wardenhelm Poppin turns and goes, "It
"appears my guards say you are successful in this.
That is very good. I am impressed. What is your
"names, if I might be of curious?"
MARISHA: We're The Mighty Nein.
MATT: "The Mighty Nein. All right. Good to know
that The Mighty Nein can be relied upon in such
"situations. Are you staying in town for quite a
while?"
MARISHA: I don't know how long we might be staying
in town, so maybe we should go ahead and talk
about that deal while we're here?
MATT: "Right. While you were down there, I got
approval for about 200 gold from the Starosta for
"payment. I hope that is enough?"
MARISHA: To get out the Schusters?
TALIESIN: He doesn't know about the Schusters.
MARISHA: Oh. But you talked about getting people
out.
TALIESIN: No, we mentioned vaguely that we might
want something.
MATT: "I am curious as to what you are referring
to."
TALIESIN: We have some friends that are currently
interred here for financial troubles? Nothing
dangerous, nothing violent. We were wondering if
we could make a deal for maybe some leniency. If
that's possible.
MARISHA: Take that 200 gold, consider it their
bail and time served.
TALIESIN: Also, we do have a bit of the mechanism,
and if everybody here is all right, I am of the
opinion that if anybody asks us, it was your
brilliant idea to let us into that cell in the
first place to take care of this problem. If
anybody asks, we know who is absolutely
responsible for this.
LIAM: You picked us specifically.
SAM: Poppin Drokrusher.
TALIESIN: You saw something in us. You took a
chance, and we're grateful for it.
MARISHA: And this guy will agree to that. Right,
Cleff? I elbow Cleff.
MATT: "Oh! Of course, great deal. Ooh, sternum,
it's a bit pain--" Go ahead and make a persuasion
check with advantage.
TALIESIN: All right, come on, man. For fuck's
sake. That's a six.
MARISHA: Total?
MATT: A six.
TALIESIN: I don't have any persuasion. I don't
know why--
MATT: Why you keep leading these social
encounters?
TALIESIN: Somebody should pick up, but we don't
have our talker here right now.
MATT: Well, you got a talker, but that's okay. He
takes a keen look at you, goes over, and starts
thumbing through papers. Goes through his books,
picks one, and goes, "Schuster, Schuster,
"Schuster. All right, I found the report here." He
turns the page, "That looks like they were
"arrested for false idol worship. That is not a
minor offense."
LIAM: Look at it this way: one path we could take
is that you are the mastermind who hired the right
people for the job and everything is perfect. The
other path, we talk about how we came in and fixed
things you could not.
MATT: "The Schusters are still to serve a two-year
sentence, both of them. To pay the amount to bail
"them out would be, at this point, about 350 gold.
With the 200 that were offered, that would put you
"at a 150 bail amount should you wish to indeed pay
for these very important friends of yours."
MARISHA: Well, considering you have a hunk of
metal down in your basement that is worth at least
100 gold worth of scrap that I'm sure the Assembly
Yard would love to have--
MATT: "And they will, because it's still
technically commissioned originally by the prison,
"so we own the rights to its carcass. However, the
moment of negotiation is over. This is my price as
"it stands. Either you receive the 200 and walk
away, or you can continue to pay the bail and they
"will be released. That is up to you--"
LIAM: Ja, I think that’s a fair deal. Jester,
would you mind settling this debt for us?
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's no problem. Jester will be
happy to pay.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: 150 gold?
MATT: 150 gold.
TALIESIN: Laura, you can text right now.
ASHLEY: Oh no!
TALIESIN: That's okay. Laura will text if she has
a problem with that.
MARISHA: Fjord can foot half, since he's
sympathetic.
TALIESIN: Fjord will pay half! So 75 gold each.
MATT: That's true.
MARISHA; Fjord says, "You know what? To keep them
out of that orphanage?"
LIAM: Your gold, Laura, or your maternal bond. You
choose!
TALIESIN: Seven. Okay. So that's all right. Bump
bump. Oh, and look at that! It's all done! Look at
that, it's all done. That all happened!
MATT: Look at that. It's beautiful.
MARISHA: He's like, "No money was spent!"
TALIESIN: It's as if it never was!
ASHLEY: What a bunch of assholes.
TALIESIN: That's what you get for getting knocked
up, man. Right there. Sorry.
(laughter)
MATT: At this point, he--
MARISHA: Kids are expensive!
TALIESIN: Kids are a deep financial drain, man!
MATT: It's true!
LIAM: Man, don't I know it.
MATT: He accepts the coin, shouts out to-- he
says, "Micahl!" And this female halfling comes
rushing in. He says, "I would like for you to
write a writ for me of success in clearing the
"lower regions of the prison under the watchful eye
of the Wardenhelm Poppin Drokrusher. I thank you.
"And also, could we please have sent up immediately
a," he leans forward, "Gilda and Wallace Schuster.
"They are on the second level in cell 12B. They
have had their bail paid." The halfling rushes
off, some of the guards leave with her, and about
20 or so minutes later you hear the footsteps
return and there you see this couple. They pull
forward, dirty, sallow, not very well-fed, but
alive, and they both look bewildered. The man,
who's got a thick graying brown scruff and the
hair a bit shaken from his form, he glances up at
the rest of you. "I don't understand what's happening."
SAM: It's all right.
TALIESIN: We never understand what's happening,
either.
MARISHA: Gilda? Wallace?
MATT: The woman looks over. She has this long,
curled, and tangled brownish-red hair. She goes,
"Is this true? We're free?"
MARISHA: Why don't we get outside and then we'll
talk?
SAM: Let's have a meat pie.
(laughter)
MATT: With that, you guide the now
no-longer-prisoners outside of the Gearhold
Prison, and as the small door opens to lead them
out into the late afternoon air, the sunlight hits
them. And you see them blink and wince, and then
look up and smile, as this is probably the first
sunlight they've seen in six months. You can see a
bit of glimmer as tears begin to form at the edge
of their eyes and the two, the couple, look at
each other and smile, and hold each other, and
look back at the group of you and say, "Thank you,
but why?"
MARISHA: Let's just say your kids made an
impression on us.
MATT: "Are they all right? Where are they?"
SAM: They're at your house, the butcher place?
Don't worry, we'll take you there. They're being
kept safe by a tiny bird with a dagger.
MATT: They look at you, and look both frightened
by the words you say, and then equally frightened
by the creature they now realize that is saying
it, and go, "Right, right."
TALIESIN: Best not to think about it.
SAM: Sometimes the people that help you are the
least expected.
MARISHA: I was going to say eclectic, but sure.
MATT: "Thank you."
LIAM: Thank heavens for little blessings.
MATT: "Thank you very much. Can we go to our
children, please?"
ALL: Yes.
MATT: With that, you guys all make your way back
up the switchback path to the Idleworks Shelf,
just as the sun begins to hit the mountains, the
skies turning to the oranges and reds of the
coming sunset. At this point, the people of the
city begin to rise in energy once more as the
whistles of a day's work come to a close. The city
beings to liven up once more into an air of
celebration, music blasting around you on all
sides.
MARISHA: It's like being in Vegas for more than 24
hours. You're like, "No! Not again! I can't do
"this for a third night in a row! Ugh!"
TALIESIN: Roll for dubstep.
MATT: As you guys push through the streets now,
the celebration expanding and exploding throughout
the vicinity, your still-lingering hangovers from
the night before, mixed with your physically
damaged selves, make you less jovial in this
space. Eventually you make your way to the back to
the location of the previously boarded-up butcher
shop. It appears to be left alone, closed, locked,
and as you left it.
(whistling) (knocking)
MARISHA: Oh, your way was way more cool.
TALIESIN: It's us. Open it up!
MATT: You hear some shuffling and the door opens.
Austin and Gail look past and open the door. As
soon as Gail can say, "You're back--" they look,
and you can see their parents, right there, smile
back at them. With that, they rush out, Gail and
Austin, and wrap their arms around their mother
and father. Behind them, skittering, Layla and
Jude look past, and they run up as well and hold
them. Now this family unit of six all brought
together again, as filthy as they may be in their
current garb and lifestyle, hold themselves
amongst the glowing of distant fireworks going
off, an unknowing celebration that the city holds
for this family. Behind, you see Kiri shuffle out,
see what's happening, then also come forward and
put her arms around the family and looks back at
you with a smile. (like Jester) "Yes, I am a good
girl."
ASHLEY: Oh my goodness.
MARISHA: This is making me really emotional.
LIAM: This could be our chance to find a good home
for her.
SAM: Yes!
MATT: Kiri steps away from the group, looks at the
rest of you, takes the dagger out, steps forward
and goes, (like Nott) "The Mighty Nein!"
MARISHA: Kiri. (exhales)
LIAM: You like these kids, Kiri?
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay."
LIAM: Ja?
MATT: (like Caleb) "Ja."
LIAM: You know, you spend enough time with us--
Beauregard and I here almost died tonight. You're
just a little girl. You should be playing with
these kids, not playing with us. What about you,
Mom and Dad?
MATT: At this point, they're barely paying
attention. They look back and say,
"I'm sorry, what?"
TALIESIN: We have a request.
MARISHA: A favor. In return--
LIAM: In exchange-- Beauregard.
MARISHA: No, you were nailing it. We did a jinxies
thing, yeah.
MATT: Fjord steps in next to you as well, and
goes, "Look, no children should be without their
"parents, and we're happy to have brought you back
together. Be more careful. Make sure that if you
"do anything that could put your kids at risk,
don't." He looks over and defers back to you, Caleb.
LIAM: We get into trouble quite a bit. I feel
guilty bringing this young girl with us. We've
gone to great lengths to get you out and all-- I
can't speak for the group, but all I ask is that
you give this girl some parents.
MARISHA: Fjord's right. No child should be
separated from their parents. Unfortunately, this
little one was.
MATT: The parents look at each other, and down at
the kids. The little girl, Layla, with her curled
red hair, goes, "Does this mean she can stay?" and
looks over at Kiri. Kiri looks between them and
you, and looks temporarily conflicted and
confused, but you can see a bit of understanding
wash over. Kiri reaches over and takes from her
pocket the dagger, steps forward, and turns it
around, handle forward. Holds it out.
MARISHA: You've learned.
MATT: (like Jester) "Yes, I am very sweet." She
reaches down, and pulls out the music box. Slowly
opens it after winding it.
[music box plays]
TALIESIN: Oh, that's just mean.
MATT: (like Caleb) "She's a pretty good egg."
Looks up at Caleb and rushes forward, and gives a
big, warm hug.
MARISHA: Shit. I turn to Gilda and Wallace and
say: Look, I know another mouth to feed is a lot.
It would mean a lot if you take her, but we'll
help you out. I reach in and I give them 50 gold
from my stash. Should be enough to help for a
little bit. Hopefully make up the difference.
MATT: She accepts it, wide-eyed. "I don't know
what to say."
MARISHA: Well, I stole 75 gold from my friend
without him being here to speak for it, so I feel
like it's fair.
MATT: She steps back, and they look like they're
in shock still from these strangers that have come
to their aid so heavily. Kiri pulls back and looks
to you. (like Jester) "Don't eat humans, okay?"
MARISHA: Go give Jester a hug. I know she wished
she'd be here for it.
MATT: Jester, you see her arms twisted up and the
eyes filled with water and she goes, "Oh! We're
"going to come back, right?"
SAM: Yes, we'll come back and check on Kiri. Be a
good girl, Kiri.
MATT: She gives a big hug and goes, "Kiri, you're
going to be so beautiful as you grow up, and this
"family is going to take care of you and is going
to be your new mother and father and you’ll have
"this whole family here for you. Remember that no
matter what's happening and what you are doing,
"the Traveler is always looking over you, and we
are always-- always thinking of you with love."
Jester turns around, and you can see the tears
welling up in her eyes.
MARISHA: I give Jester a hug.
MATT: She takes you in there. Fjord steps forward
and ruffles the feathers on the head and says,
"You're always a member. Maybe one day, you'll be
able to come back and use that dagger for
something that's alive." Kiri turns back and looks
to you. (like Nott) "Yeza was his name."
SAM: I guess everyone knows at this point, so it's
okay now.
MATT: She gives you a hug.
SAM: Thank you for listening to us.
MATT: Looks to Molly and gives this distant
stare.
TALIESIN: I'm so glad we understand each other.
Take care of them.
MATT: (like Molly) "Take care of them." Looks to
you, and comes up and cuddles up against your
chest where she had slept the night before and
(chirping).
ASHLEY: Scratch those feathers.
MATT: The feathers fluff up a bit.
ASHLEY: Goodbye, Kiri. We will send you treasures
from all of our travels.
MATT: (like Jester) "Okay."
ASHLEY: We will miss you very much.
MATT: Kiri turns back and steps beside the kids.
The family looks out and goes, "If there's ever
"the opportunity to pay this back or forward, we
will. Thank you."
MARISHA: You already are. Look at this handsome
lot. You look like you need to be a vinyl decal on
the back of a minivan.
LIAM: A what?
TALIESIN: I'm not even going to go there.
MATT: More fireworks go off and the whole family
looks up again, and there's a moment where the
family, as one single unit, pulling Kiri into it,
Gilda looks at them all and says, "It's been a
"long time since I felt the need to celebrate. How
about we all wash up and go out and take you for
"flowers?" The kids brighten up, excited, and Kiri
looks up happily and curiously looks back. They
all shuffle into the house. The last look
as Kiri looks back over her shoulder.
(like Jester) "I am Kiri." The door closes.
SAM: That felt really good, guys!
ASHLEY: It sure did.
SAM: It's nice being good people.
MARISHA: That might be the first nice thing I've
ever done.
TALIESIN: Explains why your face is doing that, I
suppose.
MARISHA: I don't know what this emotion thing is.
It's weird.
TALIESIN: It's not a good look on you.
MARISHA: It probably isn't.
TALIESIN: Come on, let's go find a quiet place to
sleep. I'm exhausted.
MATT: Fjord, as you're walking along back to your
inn, goes, "Now, I know y'all did this because I
"asked you to, and you weren't sure if you wanted
to. I want you to know that's appreciated. You
"went out on a limb for me and these kids. I'll
remember that. Anyway, come on." As you guys make
your way back to a more solemn evening, the
celebration is wild. The Blushing Tankard Tavern
is in the same crazy energy and music you possibly
can expect, but you are too exhausted emotionally
and physically. You get a drink, find your way
back to your room, and crash out hard.
TALIESIN: Long rest.
MATT: Long rest to you all. The next morning you
come to consciousness, your first morning not
hungover for a lot of you, here in the city of
Hupperdook. Now the city is yours to make your
final business with.
SAM: We can do more things in this city?
MATT: Well, you haven't gotten back to Tinkertop
for your half of the deal.
SAM: Yes, that's right. I guess we should go visit
Cleff.
TALIESIN: Get your tinker toy.
SAM: Who says it's mine? It could be any of ours.
I mean, mine's a little busted, though, so it
would be nice.
MATT: As you hold it up, it goes (snapping).
SAM: I can fix that. Probably.
TALIESIN: Going to take it away.
MARISHA: On the way, I look for someone who wasn't
the guy who hated us before selling more of those
poppers, because I want to stock up before we get
out of this godforsaken town.
LIAM: I tag along with Beauregard.
MATT: All right. You get another set of ten.
MARISHA: Another set of ten. Yeah!
MATT: I think it was two copper.
TALIESIN: I will only stop if there's something
interesting in a window. Otherwise, I figure we're
heading back to pick up the crossbow.
LIAM: Hey, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Yeah, Caleb?
LIAM: That felt pretty good last night. Helping
somebody.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah.
LIAM: Do something good.
MARISHA: Yeah, it wasn't too bad.
LIAM: I get the sense that you have bigger plans
than that, even. Cobalt. Monk. I get a sense.
MARISHA: Honestly, I don't really have a lot of
plans. My entire life has been plans being made
for me. So it's nice not having plans. I ran away
from the Cobalt Soul. I have ideas. I don't know
if ideas would count as plans.
LIAM: Well, that's just semantics. I have a feel
about you. You and change. I don't think that you
and I have the same plans, but I think they might
overlap. I would be willing to help you.
MARISHA: I'd be willing to help you, under one
condition. Can we agree to keep each other straight?
LIAM: How do you mean?
MARISHA: If either one of us tries to turn and do
something stupid, or lean a little bit more evil.
LIAM: Evil?
MARISHA: Chaotic, whatever you want to call it.
LIAM: Surely neither of us are evil, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Anarchists? Let's just make a pact if
either one of us do anything stupid that maybe
we're each other's failsafes.
LIAM: Yeah, I like that.
MARISHA: I don't think I want to hurt any more
people and I don't think you do either, so maybe
if we keep each other from hurting other people.
That's not true. I do want to hurt people, just
not people I like. Let's hurt bad guys.
LIAM: I think I can help you. I think you can help
me. I think we can do some good here.
MARISHA and LIAM: Deal.
SAM and MARISHA: Skype high-five!
MATT and TALIESIN: Skype-five.
TALIESIN: Skype force five.
MARISHA: Can you do the-- give me a--
LIAM: I will do my best, Beauregard.
MATT: That's amazing. Awesome. As that's
happening, you guys have reached the exterior of
the Tinkertop Inventions shop.
TALIESIN: If there was possible to buy some food,
I want to have some camping food for the rest,
like good stuff.
MATT: High-quality provisions for the rest of the
trip?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, just really good food.
ASHLEY: Stews.
TALIESIN: Some meat, veggies. Just (grunts).
MATT: If you drop a solid two gold--
TALIESIN: Done!
MATT: You have good road meals that'll last--
TALIESIN: We're eating good!
MATT: Oh, for the whole group? For the whole
group, put five gold down and I'd say you guys
have some of the finest fucking food you could
have on the road going north. That is good eating.
TALIESIN: Yep. We're going to be eating really
good.
MATT: On the outskirts of the Tinkertop Inventions
shack, you make your way on the inside and you
see, in the process of feverishly sketching out
designs, Cleff Tinkertop barely look up from his
page. "Oh! Hello, good to see you all again. Thank
you. Thank you for helping with that. I think,
"based on some of these new designs I'm coming
forward, they might be interested in a new
"version! Perhaps a new design! Perhaps an update,
if you will, based on the notes you gave me, so
"here's to hoping!"
SAM: Okay. Worth a shot.
MARISHA: Don't know if a lesson was learned here,
but all right, let's continue on.
TALIESIN: Maybe the lesson was for us. I'm not
sure.
MATT: "Can I help you with anything?"
SAM: Well, we just came to say goodbye; we're
probably rolling out of town soon. And, you know,
I mean, if you had an extra crossbow lying
around.
MATT: "Ha ha! Right, sorry, I forgot entirely!
I'll be right back." He goes back and rummages and
pulls out the fantastic, previously displayed
Tinkertop Boltblaster 1000 and goes, "Thank you
"for your help. I hope it serves you well. By the
way, if there's any problems, if you wouldn't mind
"making notes, and feel free to mail them off to me
so I can perhaps improve on the next iteration."
SAM: A beta testing sort of a thing?
MATT: "If you don't mind. That'd be fantastic."
TALIESIN: I'm so excited.
SAM: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Ooh, nice.
SAM: Sure.
TALIESIN: Woo!
SAM: Okay. Yes. Ugh.
TALIESIN: That can happen. That's okay.
SAM: I love it. It's great.
TALIESIN: That's very you. It's very you.
SAM: Thank you. Thank you, Cleff.
MATT: "Of course, and thank you as well. Wherever
you're off to, safe travels!"
MARISHA: Cleff, maybe if in the future we come
back and need a repair or something spiffy, you'll
cut us a deal?
MATT: "I think something can be arranged. I'll be
here!"
MARISHA: And hey, I don't know if you know the
Schusters at all, but if you see a family walking
around, little bird child, maybe watch over them
for us.
MATT: "That's a very curious series of words
you've strung together, but I'll keep an eye out for you."
MARISHA: I acknowledge that, and thank you.
MATT: "Course."
TALIESIN: Look at you, becoming a people person.
Or at least a bird person.
MARISHA: Fuck you, Molly.
TALIESIN: Fuck you, too.
MATT: "Well, if you're leaving, you should say
bye, Rissa!" Behind him, Rissa sits up with her
goggles on. She was in the back currently working
on something. Goes, "Oh, right, you're off
"already? You're leaving?"
TALIESIN: We got to get on the road.
MATT: "Oh, well, it's been fun."
TALIESIN: We can't thank you enough. We'll
definitely come back in contact next time we're
rolling through town.
MATT: "Do. Thank you for showing me a good time
and for getting this old coot back to some sort of
"interesting means of constructive work."
SAM: I'm sure he's going to invent many new,
excellent devices.
TALIESIN: We leave her the drinking tokens.
MATT: She goes, "Well, I mean, drinking by proxy,
I'll certainly take that!"
TALIESIN: They need use. I think it's fair.
MATT: "Well. Next time, I'll owe you a round."
TALIESIN: Very much taking you up on that.
MATT: "Well, be safe. Take care. And 'til the next
time." As you guys exit, you hear her say, "I
"don't think this design's going to work, Dad." He
says, "No, trust me!" And the door closes behind you.
TALIESIN: That's going to end well.
SAM: I think they're on the road to recovery.
TALIESIN: Something very positive's going to come
out of that relationship.
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: Yasha!
ASHLEY: Yeah?
LIAM: What is on your mind? You're very quiet.
You're not thinking about leaving us again, are you?
ASHLEY: Why would you think that?
LIAM: Well, you tend to go mum for a while, and
then you're gone. You’re very useful for us! We
could do great things together, the not-nine of
us. I hope you're not thinking of leaving.
ASHLEY: Well, I'm not at this moment. I think--
and if I did, I would find my way back to you.
Sometimes things need to be done.
LIAM: Well, no one's going to bully you into a
decision, but we're all happy to have you here.
You know, my muscles are big. They can accomplish
a lot, but we do better with you around.
ASHLEY: Thank you, Caleb. I think you can manage
just fine, but I will-- I'm here for now.
SAM: She's not going anywhere! What are you,
crazy, Caleb? She's fine! Come on!
LIAM: It was just a feeling I had.
SAM: You're crazy!
LIAM: I understand.
SAM: It's fine!
ASHLEY: What a strange feeling.
MARISHA: What time is it?
MATT: At this point-- well, no, you slept through
the night and you've woken up the next morning, so
it's pushing close to midday.
TALIESIN: Let's get on our way soon.
MARISHA: Yeah. To Shitty Creek?
TALIESIN: Let's make our way.
SAM: Is that where we're going next?
MATT: Fjord musters the cart, the horses,
retrieves them from where they were stored during
your stay here.
SAM: Are we making our way out of town?
MATT: Looks like it, unless you guys have anything
else planned.
SAM: On the way out of town-- you said when we
came into town there were some guards with
pistols, with guns?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Do we see any on the way out?
MATT: Make a perception check, as you make your
way through the bottom end of the city.
SAM: 14.
MATT: 14? Glancing through, there are two
crownsguard that walk by, both gnomish. One of
them appears to be carrying a heavy sword on the
back. The other one does have some sort of strange
contraption, like a firearm pistol at its side.
SAM: I'm going to try to steal it.
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.
MARISHA: Yes!
SAM: With either Mage Hand, or my own hand,
whatever's--
MATT: Up to you.
SAM: Mage Hand.
MATT: All right.
SAM: What am I doing? Sleight of hand?
MATT: Sleight of hand, so your proficiency
modifier plus your dex.
SAM: Oh. 19, then. So not sleight of hand, this is
a dexterity check.
MATT: Well no, sleight of hand is-- I'm sorry, no,
it's a sleight of hand check.
SAM: Oh, well then it's 22.
MATT: 22, yeah. My brain. I was thinking of
unlocking. It glides past over you. The guard’s
none the wiser.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: It is loaded with a single shot.
SAM: Great.
MATT: So you have a single-shot pistol with no
ammunition.
SAM: It's loaded with a bullet, though, right?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Okay, cool. Great. That's all I care about.
MATT: All right. With that--
MARISHA: If you're deserted on an island, to kill
yourself with?
MATT: In those final dark moments! This campaign
goes really dark suddenly! With that, you guys
head out past the fences, the artillery
construction ranges, the plumes of smoke and
steam, the dual-shelved levels of the gnomish city
of Hupperdook, with the people, adventures that
you met and left behind, and forge your way on
further up the Crispvale Roadway heading towards
the Glory Run Road, that heads north, towards
Nogvurot and the Shadycreek Run. Heading on for
the next better half of the day, you make a fair
amount of travel, before the sun eventually sets
before you can reach the crossroads. Eventually
having to pull off to the side of the road to make
camp for the first night there. You head off your
general curious range there, you set up a small
camp. Who's taking first watch?
LIAM: Nott and I.
MATT: Okay. Nott and Caleb, if you wouldn't mind
rolling a perception check with advantage, or both
of you roll it individually.
SAM: You go.
LIAM: With advantage?
MATT: No, he rolled, and now you.
SAM: I got a nine.
LIAM: You got-- okay. Here comes. Oh, big eight.
MATT: All right. You guys take your first watch.
Nothing. Though you're not paying much attention,
nothing seems to transpire during that first watch
period. You finish it without issue. The second
watch come up. Fjord goes ahead and says, "I'll
take it."
ASHLEY: I'll join you.
MATT: "You'll join as well, Yasha?"
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: All right. You guys take your second watch.
Fjord and Yasha are currently situated there. Two
of you are up. It's now pushing past maybe one or
two in the morning. The fire is burned low to
embers at this point, and you're both staying
close for heat. Fjord's sitting there looking, and
goes, "I'm kind of proud of all this, you know?"
ASHLEY: I am, too. I'm actually very surprised at
the choices we've made. Especially the choices
that I've made.
MATT: "Yeah. A lot of these folks have surprised
me." A little voice goes like, (as Jester) "Some
"people are trying to sleep."
ASHLEY: Sorry, Jester.
MATT: "But I’m awake now." Fjord goes like, "Let’s
take a walk." Fjord stands up, Jester stands up,
and the three of you step away for a minute. Fjord
looks up at the stars and goes, "Dreams’ve been
"weird. For all the visions, the darkness out
there, it’s good to know that, somehow maybe we're
"all putting a little bit of light in there too."
ASHLEY: That’s a very nice way to put it.
MATT: "Who knows? Maybe we’ll find ourselves a
path somewhere along the coast in the long run.
"Could show you some of my hometown. Maybe some of
yours, but maybe not quite as well put together."
Jester interjects at this point and goes, "Well,
if we do go back, I could show you-- if it is safe
"depending on what my mom says-- the places where I
grew up, the beautiful shorelines. Have you been
"to the Menagerie Coast before?"
ASHLEY: "I’ve never been to the Coast."
MATT: "Oh, it is so beautiful. It would be
incredible."
ASHLEY: I’ve seen--
MATT: Her mouth isn’t making noise. You go to
talk. No sound comes out of it either. There’s a
look of confusion amongst the three of you. I need
you to make a wisdom saving throw, Yasha.
What did you roll?
ASHLEY: I rolled 11.
MATT: In that moment of panic, you go to reach for
your weapon, and suddenly your muscles seize up
and your body is unable to move. Your eyes glance
back at Fjord, who seems to be in the same
position. The falchion apparates in his hand, but
he is unable to move. Jester is the only one who
is like-- As she turns to run for the group, and
impacts the chest of a dark humanoid figure who’s
standing there who grabs and holds her in place.
Four other dark figures emerge from the shadows
around and grab and immediately put their arms
around you. You try and resist from the spell. In
fact, make another wisdom saving throw.
SAM: Oh god.
ASHLEY: Natural 20.
SAM: Whoa!
MATT: Fjord maintains it, but all this in absolute
silence. There is no sound, just shadows and
starlight. As you’re now being grappled by two
men, the spell breaks from you. However, they’re
still holding you. As you feel a gag pulled over
your mouth from one of them, the other one begins
to throw rope around you. You’re looking over the
side and you can see another gag showed into
Fjord’s mouth. Manacles are being shoved onto his
arms and legs. He's unable to move. Jester tries
to break free off the opposite-- not with a
natural seven. She’s kicking and screaming, but
there is no sound coming out and as she’s pushed
down, another figure comes up and throws shackles
onto her arms behind her and her legs. She’s
yelling and yelling and a gag is pulled over her
mouth. What are you doing?
ASHLEY: Am I--?
MATT: There’s two people that are now coming to
grapple you.
ASHLEY: I take out my weapon and I’m ready to go.
MATT: All right. You pull your weapon. Make an
attack, if you want.
ASHLEY: Yes. Okay. 25.
MATT: 25 hits. Roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: Where was this?
SAM: She’s a bad motherfucker.
ASHLEY: 18?
MATT: 18 damage. Oof! You have a second attack, if
you like.
ASHLEY: Oh, that’s a nine.
MATT: Your first one impacts one guy and there’s a
splash of blood, silent. Once again, no sound
here. The second one swings wide and the other guy
captures it. He grabs your arm and pulls you in.
He’s going to make an athletics check against you.
Make an athletics or acrobatics check to try and
not be grappled.
ASHLEY: 13?
MATT: That’s not going to make it. He grapples and
holds you in place. The other one takes and slams
manacles onto your wrists and pulls it back,
wrenching the blade from your grasp. Your arms are
now locked behind you into these metal manacles.
ASHLEY: Can I try to scream out in some way to the
Stormlord?
MATT: You go ahead and scream. Make a straight
wisdom check.
ASHLEY: Three.
MATT: In that moment, as you try and scream out,
your vocal cords strained by the sheer force of
your voice, no sound comes out. Looking up in the
sky, there isn’t a single cloud in sight. Probably
for the first time in weeks, since you’ve been in
this side of Wildemount, it is a clear night. No
sign of clouds. No sign of storm. In that moment,
as you’re screaming out, the gag gets put into
your mouth and tied behind your head. You glance
over and you can see Jester being dragged. Now the
manacles affixed to the back of her ankles and
she’s being pulled through the grass, Fjord a few
feet behind her. Still unable to really make out
the shapes of these hooded figures that are
pulling them through and you are shoved to the
ground.
ASHLEY: Are my legs still free?
MATT: Your ankles are about to be manacled.
ASHLEY: Can I kick?
MATT: Make another athletics check.
ASHLEY: 25.
MATT: 25, all righty. With that, you manage to
kick free and they can’t quite get ahold on it and
one figure steps forward, shorter than the others,
stout looking, and goes, "Oh for the--" and his
voice dissipates as he gets closer. I need you to
make another wisdom saving throw.
ASHLEY: 17.
MATT: You’re still kicking and breaking free.
They’re going to try to restrain you once more.
Roll one more athletics check.
ASHLEY: Eight.
MATT: No, that’s not going to do it. As much as
you struggle right now, you’re by yourself. Now it
looks like two figures holding you down, and the
third one that is frustrated that you have
resisted a spell a second time. They get the
manacles on the back of your legs. Your arms are
held behind, your ankles are now pulled up towards
where your hands are, and you are face down in the
wet grass in the middle of the night, as you feel
your body now being dragged by the chains.
Dragged, dragged. Your mouth is filled with the
taste of the sweat that’s poured down, that’s
soaked into the gag that's now forced in your
mouth. Grass and grime and mud are grinding
against your face. All you can see is the dark
shadow there and the bits of star and sky ahead,
until eventually you’re lifted upright, right back
once more. Immediately, you can see a series of
wide carts, large travel caravan carts that are
low set, covered with piles of goods. Looks like
sacks and a couple of crates, fairly
sparse-looking for travel caravan crates, but what
you see travel up and down the roads all the time.
There are three of them with horses to the front
of them. You can see about eight other figures
around these carts. As you’re up held there, with
your mouth gagged and your arms and legs bound,
you look off to the side and you can see Fjord and
Jester also struggling and unable to find their
way about. Jester begins to flex against it and
you can see her strong physique pushing against
it, and she gets smacked upside the cheek by one
of the men that pulls her and holds her in place.
You hear a voice speak up and say, "Hey, look what
"we found, eh?" You see a dark figure step closer
to you. Glancing up, through the minimal light, a
human man, tall and brutish. His head is
completely bald on top, revealing a scarred and
tattooed design across one side that curls down
into his lightly leathered armored chest. His
thick brow hangs over two cold, uncaring eyes. He
nods in approval to these three acquisitions that
you are, revealing a number of golden teeth
between his cracked lips. His muscular body is
mostly obscured by a cloak and hood beyond that
armor. The thug goes, "Lorenzo, your instincts are
"sharp. Looks like we found ourselves a sudden
bounty." The heavy figure, who hasn’t spoken at
this point, kneels down and grabs the chins of
each of you. Grabs Jester, who is now shaking,
with anger and fear in her eyes, looks both sides
of her face, goes to Fjord and lifts the chin,
comes to you and grabs--
ASHLEY: I spit in his face.
MATT: The gag is right there, so you-- (coughing)
"Looks like this one’s got some spirit too.
"(chuckles) Our prospects are good with this find.
Two divine-blood and one half-beast. I’m pleased.
"Toss them in with the others. We’ll head back. Our
cages are at capacity now." He stands back up and
turns around and heads back to the carts, as
you’re all being thrown to your sides again and
being dragged through the wet grass and dirt, over
rocks. You can feel gashes being pulled across
your face and shoulders as you’re being pulled
through the dirt. You’re righted once more and two
more goons lift you up towards the back of this
mostly empty cart. It seems just small piles and
boxes, and then suddenly your vision shifts, as if
you’re being pulled through a curtain and these
carts are piled high with cages. And the opened
one that the three of you are showed into clangs
behind you, this five feet by five feet box. As
the three of you are jammed into each other
uncomfortably, you look about inside, under what
looks to be a darkened tarp that covers the cages.
Glancing out the side of your eye, you can see in
the one next to you, that there are other dark
humanoid figures quietly whimpering and not
moving. You hear "Heyup!" and the horses begin to
pick up speed, as the creaking of wheels turning
get faster and the feel of the cart beginning to
move. And that’s where we’re going to finish
tonight’s session.
(groaning)
SAM: Was she taken and Fjord and Jester?
TALIESIN: The three of them, yep.
SAM: All in the same cart.
TALIESIN: Yep.
ASHLEY: Fuck.
MARISHA: My heart.
SAM: We heard it with our passive perception.
MARISHA: They were in a Silence spell.
SAM: Oh, I forgot to tell you that I never went to
sleep and I was watching the whole time!
MARISHA: Better be some dope investigating at the
top when we come back.
TALIESIN: Maybe you hit him enough so that you
left a clue.
MATT: It’s possible.
SAM: Well yeah, blood.
MATT: There were some struggle.
MARISHA: Blood! Splatter! Some CSI shit! Up in
here!
SAM: Yeah, we’ll get a black light.
(laughter)
SAM: We’re going to name it Caruso.
MARISHA: Yeah, we’ll have dope one-liners.
ASHLEY: Yup.
MARISHA: The Who. It’s going to be great.
LIAM: Oh man, what a foursome. Holy shit.
MATT: It’s going to be interesting.
ASHLEY: This was too much! Kiri and then this?
LIAM: We did the right thing with Kiri.
ASHLEY: My heart.
TALIESIN: Yes.
MATT: Love you guys.
MARISHA: We didn’t kill Fjord and Jester, though!
By puppeting them. We took some money, but that’s
a good cost for not killing them.
LIAM: We did drain Laura’s coffers, though.
ASHLEY: Just a little.
LIAM: There was that.
TALIESIN: To be fair, it’s not like the money
would do her any good right now.
MARISHA: That 75 gold?
TALIESIN: They’re going to take all of that, so if
anything--
MATT: Well, she didn’t take her haversack with her
when she parted with you guys.
MARISHA: So we have the haversack. And if they get
disarmed--
TALIESIN: Really, it’s our money now.
SAM: Mm-hmm.
MATT: You can take that up with Laura.
TALIESIN: I’m going to have access to this
haversack for a while, I’m just saying. Sorry.
MATT: Oh boy.
TALIESIN: Oh boy. I’m going to get in trouble.
MATT: Love you, Ashley.
ASHLEY: Love you.
TALIESIN: Oh god! No!
MATT: She goes back to New York. You’ll hop in
when you can.
ASHLEY: I’ll hop in when I can.
LIAM: No, she doesn’t! Is that true?
ASHLEY: What?
LIAM: You’re leaving?
ASHLEY: Yep.
MATT: He knows that.
LIAM: Don’t go.
MATT: I know.
LIAM: Stay here! And play D&amp;D for weeks and years
at the old folks’ home.
MATT and ASHLEY: I know.
MARISHA: We’re just selfish.
LIAM: Yeah, we are.
ASHLEY: But Skyping isn’t the same, yeah?
LIAM: No, I feel like I’m in a bunker underneath
the ocean.
MATT: I know.
MARISHA: You sound like it.
LIAM: There’s just a half a second of delay and
that’s all it takes to make feel like I’m 80 feet away.
TALIESIN: No, it’s like playing D&amp;D with General
Zod. I mean I’m happy to do it, but it is a little weird.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: It’s a little much.
LIAM: Can I be Terence Stamp?
MATT: It’s true.
TALIESIN: Bless you.
MATT: Thank you, Liam, for making it.
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Thank you, Liam!
SAM: Thank you, Matt for making this game work
with half of a crew.
LIAM: --Baryshnikov of Dungeons &amp; Dragons.
MARISHA: Congrats to Laura and Travis!
SAM: I’m sure they’re sound asleep right now. Just
getting a good night’s sleep.
(laughter)
MATT: Oh yeah, the dads get to laugh now.
TALIESIN: Never again.
SAM: The first night is rough!
LIAM: Just you wait, Travis Willingham! The
chickens are all coming home to roost!
TALIESIN: This is the most complicated revenge
plan I've ever heard.
MARISHA; I know! These fucking assholes are like,
"One of us! When are you going to join our
"misery?!" And I'm like, "No!"
MATT: We're good!
LIAM: Not misery.
TALIESIN: Sleep is all gone.
MARISHA: No, it's not misery. It's beautiful and
amazing and incredible.
MATT: All right, we're going to go so I can go to
sleep because it's been a very long day.
TALIESIN; It's been a very long day!
MARISHA: The day's not over!
ASHLEY: No!
MARISHA: For me, at least!
MATT: I know. That's okay.
MARISHA: Let's move.
MATT: Okay. Well guys, we're off next week. We'll
miss you then. We'll leave you on this fantastic
cliffhanger for the next two weeks and we'll pick
up from there with a guest or two which we'll
announce as we finalize the schedule. Yeah! It
means we have two guests and one guest may have
on-camera work that is waiting to hear if they can
make that first session, so we'll find out.
(singing) The life of the actor! But yes, we'll
have announcements soon on that. In the meantime,
guys, thank you so much for coming with us. We
love you, and is it Thursday yet? Good night!
[music]